you guys know i like to start  at the deep end of the pool on these  issues and someone in the audience was  asking if this is going to be shallow or  this could be deep  it's shallow and it's deep at the same  damn time people i want you to imagine  and it is not going to be all that  difficult for you to picture this in  your mind's eye regardless of where it  is in the world you grew up who it is  you grew up with what kind of family  packer you have  imagine you live in a society that is 99  muslim  and you are an atheist  that's the situation  you are profoundly alienated from 99 of  people  and you reach a point in your life  where you realize that you are going to  be  hashtag  forever alone now a lot of people a lot  of people on reddit a lot of people on  youtube a lot of people on instagram a  lot of people who identify as hashtag  forever alone they are at least as  alienated from their own society at  least as alienated from their own  members of their family and perhaps more  so  than someone who is an atheist living in  a muslim majority society flesh it out  for just half a second here  if you're an atheist  you may have  perfectly pleasant and cordial relations  at work with people who are devout  muslims it may not be a problem for you  every day in every way you know you may  be able to get along with and cooperate  with  colleagues at school colleagues at work  the person you buy your groceries from  i've lived in parts of the world where  i'm buying my groceries from people who  are muslim you know you have a little  bit of chit chat a little bit of social  interaction but in every important way  you are going to be forever alone now  some of you will say  nobody in my audience is gonna say this  but someone hypothetically might say oh  well there's still that one percent you  know you're not alone there are a few  other atheists there are a few of our  other people who who share your values  and you can make the effort to go and  meet them which is true even if you're  living in a country like iran  even if you're living in one of these  societies that's 99 muslim you can go to  conferences and events for other  dissident intellectuals you can meet  other atheists one way or another  and you are going to have the more or  less soul-crushing experience of  realizing that even though you have this  one thing in common with them you have  nothing else in common with them that  you're not compatible as friends and  there's only you know maybe fewer than  one percent of people  have this and come with you you can meet  other people who are atheists  and guess what they're 30 years older  than you like even if it was someone who  in some other universe if you'd been the  same age you could have had a  relationship  well  you're not and by the way that's that's  happened to me i remember one woman not  going to say what this is but she was  about 65  and i i i was maybe 25  and i thought just on an intellectual  level she was someone who had a lot in  common with me i was thinking  huh i thought could i make this work you  know i wasn't i wasn't really attracted  to her but you know i thought hmm you  know yeah you could meet someone else  you're compatible with you have  something in common with but they are  just too  old for you you're born of the wrong  generation you meet someone's you have  these things in common with but  they smoke cigarettes and you don't  smoke cigarettes but they eat meat and  you know what you're gonna find the vast  majority of the time you meet someone  and you have  these things in common with them that  alienate you from the rest of society  but they're already married  well guess what the vast majority of  those people there's one percent of  people out there have something in  common with you but they're already so  guess what your your hashtag forever  alone you know there there are all these  people who are profoundly alienated from  the culture and the political  circumstances they're born into and they  come on the internet to bemoan the fact  that they are forever now  as i warned you i like to start at the  deep end of the pool  some people might jump into this  audience now and say no no no that's not  the problem the problem isn't  intellectual the problem isn't ethical  the problem isn't that's the problem  with that the problem is just that  they're ugly  well i got news for you there were a lot  of ugly people in this world  and there are a lot of people who can  accept  your ugliness  it's much easier to get used to and sit  down and have a cup of coffee with  someone who just happens to be  physically ugly the shape of their face  as it turns out is kind of unpleasant or  the shape of their body you know like  you know i admit there is a prejudice in  our study when you first meet someone  your first impression of someone whether  it's a co-worker or a friend or what  have you that oh okay you know it may be  a little bit hard to look at them there  are people who are that ugly where it's  a little bit disconcerting  but you get used to it and you get along  and you learn to appreciate that person  ugliness it's common it's easy for  people to accept and it's easy for  people to overcome and if you are an  ugly person and you are willing to be in  relationships with other ugly people  whether that's friendship love marriage  as long as you're willing to accept  someone else  it's not really it's not really that  much a problem you know what you can't  accept  if you're an atheist you can't accept  being with someone who's muslim and if  you're muslim you can't accept being  with someone who's an atheist and again  just to  put a human face on it just to put it in  a scenario that you guys can immediately  relate to and visualize and understand  there are parents  who remain devoutly muslim  and they can never accept it they can  never get over it they can never sit  down and eat lunch with their own  children because their children have  rejected their religion and become  atheists you know like maybe for a very  brief phone call they can do an update  where they said oh yeah okay how are you  doing is everything okay and that is  about it there's a visceral  incompatibility there's a hatred there's  a resentment and it happens the other  way around too it's not as common but  you can have atheist parents secular  modern atheist parents and their  children become muslim fundamentalists  and the parents are taken aback the  parents can't accept it and again maybe  they can have a brief update by phone  but you can't sit down  and you know eat lunch together you  can't really share your lives together  you can't have that closeness that that  cooperation there's this sense in which  you're you're mutually alienated  and  look  i get fan mail i get hate mail i get  people challenging my views which is  great i'm happy to i'm happy to hear it  happy to interact with the audience that  way i'm happy for you guys to to join in  right now when i talk about  the problem of video game addiction and  the way video game playing is is  changing our culture i had people  writing in and talking to me and  challenging me and saying well isn't it  the case that the same problem could  arise just through someone being  addicted to coloring books adult  coloring books they challenge me and say  well you're you're picking out this  particular problem but isn't it just one  example out of many of all kinds of  problems okay no the culture of playing  video games the way in which the  internet uh changes civilization the way  in which computer technology uh changes  your civilization the way in which video  game edition changes our civilization  that's that's a mass phenomenon on the  scale of billions of people you know a  tiny percentage of people  not even a percentage a few people on  the whole earth may be addicted to  coloring books their people get it  washing their hands their people get  addicted to i've read about this people  get into eating earth  eating soil out of their garden you know  they go in and get help from  psychiatrists for it that's why we know  they exist because it's a pretty pretty  affordable addiction if you're addicted  to eating soil  [Laughter]  you can go and buy a buy a bag of dirt  at the local garden center and you're  set you know  yeah there are these tiny numbers of  people with these strange addictions but  we have to recognize when something's a  mass phenomenon with tremendous  social cultural and political  significance video game addiction has  this kind of significance and it is  partly linked to and partly you know  related to  this phenomenon of of forever alone now  speaking of the garden center  i would say this to you if not not  everyone who's forever alone identifies  with the hashtag not everyone goes to  the reddit group not everyone thinks  if you go to any garden center i've  always found this when you meet and talk  to people who are into gardening  a lot of them a lot of them are forever  alone a lot you know  and uh you know they could be widows or  widowers they could be people who used  to be married they could be people who  had a relationship earlier in their life  and now they've lost that they've gotten  divorced or their partner died or  whatever uh  you know obviously this isn't something  completely new the forever alone  phenomena has existed for centuries it  has been out there  but  what percentage of people are at any  given phase of their life  struggling with the feeling of being  forever alone and it might it might turn  out to be temporary it might be you feel  that you're forever alone for 10 years  and then at some point you meet someone  and you move on you start a new face  with it's possible it happens but for  what presented you people in our society  today is forever alone not just a  sentiment not just a sense of regret  something behind them it really does  accurately and realistically describe  their their situation in life  you want to go into my baby  yeah i like to start at the deep end of  the pool yeah i know  well i was just thinking about  this prior to starting live stream  when i was a teenager  my space was popular  and  there was somebody that i was too young  to be interacting with but nevertheless  i messaged them uh via myspace and also  aol instant messenger  and  that person i uh  of course i was  too young to really  get involved with them romantically but  i was very much interested in them and  um it was  an affair that couldn't happen because  because my parents forget me it was a  forbidden relationship  so  i used to you know see his posts what he  would share to myspace  and what he would post about often was  his feelings of being forever alone huh  but he was somebody that  was  attractive like people were interested  in him and i remember this this was my  first introduction to seeing this uh you  know hashtag forever alone right  right that this is somebody who  ostensibly seems like an attractive  person he's a popular person  yet he's coming online and talking about  his feelings of being forever alone and  i wondered  you know  just to myself you know what is this  about you know like what is this this  you know  obviously there are people interested in  him um how how is it so that he feels  this way and  it's talked about in songs you know  where you feel alone in a crowded room  you know you you are surrounded by  people but you still feel alone  um  yeah this was my first like concept of  seeing this and um you know i i think we  all have to understand and accept that  we as individuals we we are alone and we  have to  not rely on other people to give us kind  of  egoic confirmation or like affirmation  of  who we are we have to develop on our own  like that that  at our core we are  we are alone  but it's what we can bring into other  people's lives and what they bring into  our lives that make life interesting  that's part of what makes forever alone  interesting is that i think for most  people it's an accurate  analysis of something that's underlying  their conditions in the here and now  like you may not you know i mean you may  have some level of gregariousness in  your life and yet you're still also  dealing with these kind of this  underlying problems of being uh for  overwhelming yeah so i guess what else i  wanted to say about that is that it's  not that  there weren't people that would would  have been interested in this person  right right or that wanted to have a  relationship with him  it was that he wasn't willing to  right whether it's lower his standards  or whether it was uh just  what he expected out of a relationship  like he wasn't willing to put in that  there was some alienation there there  was something he couldn't have come so  is it is it that  you know is it an emotional thing that  that  you know it is possible for these people  who identify as hashtag forever alone  right that they they could reach out to  people and they would have to make the  effort to to try to so i've got to jump  in with a with a really important  distinction here there's a difference  between being lonely and being alone  like if you are alone it's an  objectively real fact and you may not  feel lonely you may not be unhappy about  like you know you can be lonely and you  can be alone and i know this is going to  sound ridiculous but there are people  like famous rock stars and celebrities  who are lonely even though they're not  alone they're successful they have fans  they have lovers or they may sleep with  groupies they may sleep with prostitutes  they may have kind of shallow  relationships but there is still an  important sense in which they're lonely  but not alone i think part of what's  important in this discussion is to  indicate that we are talking about being  alone and then the whole challenge of  the  you know slash our  uh forever alone  subculture is okay what now what do you  do from here like you can acknowledge to  some extent maybe it's something wrong  with you  to some extent it's something wrong with  the society you live in you know  something wrong with the majority of  people the culture of the context you  happen to be born into and that's why i  think it's so useful to start with  example of what if you are an atheist  living in a culture where 99 of people  are devout muslims this exists all right  and so you are  alone like this the reality now you can  blame yourself you know maybe sometimes  you do like yourself you know like maybe  sometimes you do and sometimes you know  maybe sometimes you think oh if only i  could lower my standards if only i could  conform if only i could integrate if  only you could live a kind of double  life where you pretend to be part of the  religion and culture every time then you  wouldn't be so long but i'm just  pointing we have to start  with a recognition that we're talking  about being alone not being lonely you  can be married and be lonely  is that even rarer a lot of you guys  don't have friends with that if you have  friends who are middle-aged married  people you can be married and be lonely  you can have a job like let's say you're  a hairdresser working hairdressers on  where every day you talk to people your  co-workers your clients there's a lot of  talking about socialization and you're  lonely you know what i mean so being  lonely i do think is different from  being alone and and just in that sense  now  you know look um  whether it should be praised or blamed  is one question but i mean you you  raised the issue of already to what  extent are these people alone because of  choices they've made or because of  characteristics they've had or or their  reluctance to assimilate into the  culture they've been pointed to  and what i'm starting off by saying is  even if it's a hundred percent their  fault like even if 100 their choice  their option  we're still not going to blame them for  it like there's no point like there's no  point in saying to an atheist why can't  you just assimilate into muslim culture  why can't you just right i can't i can't  like everybody else  right and the the the ethical and  intellectual estrangement there right  like the way in which a devout muslim is  going to regard me as an atheist and the  way i am going to regard a devout muslim  the sense in which ethically we mutually  reject each other intellectually we  mutually reject each other right  right now 2021 2022  if i get on an airplane and go to banff  banff alberta banff national park skiing  resort if i go to a skiing resort now  you guys may not be able to see it  but i reject those people  and they reject me there's actually a  similar kind of mutual estrangement and  incompatibility and it runs just as deep  as an atheist versus a muslim right  it's hard to accept that hard to take  that seriously but i'm asking you to  take it seriously we were both laughing  at there's a youtube channel called  bread gang yeah and the whole show is  all they do is stand outside of  nightclubs many nightclubs uh there's  some kind of area in front of the  nightclub where people mill around and  smoke cigarettes and chitchat partly  because it's too noisy inside the  nightclub to talk to each other they  were just interviewing people who were  in various stages of being drunk and  high on drugs in banff alberta the same  ski resort town these are people on a  ski vacation spending a lot of money to  be there and they're going out and using  cocaine and  mdma and other mindlessly drugs and  alcohol and whatever and and by the way  some of these people are incredibly good  looking of course i mean like you know  this is whatever this is canada you know  and these people are all able-bodied  enough to go skiing and they're all  wealthy enough to do this there's some  aesthetic level in which many of these  people or all of them may be you know  appealing or attractive or enviable  people right but i'm saying to you if i  go to that nightclub if i go on that  skiing vacation  whether or not you can see it and i  think most people can feel it there  really is a depth of  antipathy antagonism mutual rejection  there's a sense in which i will be alone  in that nightclub i will be alone at  that ski resort and i will be alone if i  relocate to saudi arabia iran so on and  so forth yeah and that's not about  feeling lonely i i may or not feel  lonely i'm saying to you in a more  objective sense you know i am alone  yeah yeah um  do you want to talk about your own life  a little bit i'm sorry because we don't  have to but i was starting by just  framing it in that big sense no no i  think that's good but yeah one of the  reasons i'm doing this is because i know  a lot of viewers don't think of that and  i know you don't think of it that way  that's why we started talking about this  couple weeks ago or something came up i  was like oh no no like i've had big  parts of my life where i was really  alone so you want to talk about your own  aloneness i mean intermittent aloneness  i will quote eisenmazard something that  you said to me was about relationships  you know at times in  my relationship with isil i have  lamented that i don't  i have enough friends or that i'm like  looking for connections with people and  um not being able to find this so in  some sense you know i am really lucky  that i have isil that we understand each  other and that i feel we have a really  positive relationship because of the way  that we relate to each other so this is  the quote that i'm getting at like that  relationships are a way of relating to  one another that you know as well and i  we we can really have this you know we  have this strong report we're able to  really relate to one another and share  um a lot with each other and um and  encourage each other yeah and that's  that's really like what you're reaching  out for so um  you know if you are  if you have such a deep divide between  people you know what kind of  relationship can you have and do you  really want to relate to that person do  you want to make the effort to relate to  somebody that you find  morally ethically despicable  someone even repugnant let's say going  on or somebody that uh you know if  you're being really honest with with  each other i mean if somebody is  of a different religious belief um they  literally believe that when you die you  are not going to heaven and  yes um that you're their enemy yeah  so what is the relationship when it's on  that very fundamental basis uh you're at  odds with one another on that on that  belief system  and yeah it's it's um  that's i i can imagine it would be  extremely isolating and alienating to  grow up muslim or grow up in a muslim  society and decide no i'm not a believer  in this faith and i wonder how many  people are and also on a more shallow  dated level i don't care about doing the  things you people do because you know  there's the religion and the philosophy  but there's also just the daily  activities things like prayer and even  the clothes you wear and stuff i don't  give a [ __ ] about these accoutrements of  the religion and culture that you people  may obsess yeah but go i'm just saying  because it is it's not just a purely  intellectual philosophical thing it's  also what you do with your time but yeah  absolutely like skiing you know  yes  well what i was going to say is that i  wonder how many people that live in  those societies are  not ironically but  consciously deciding to  put on the same behaviors and and  perform as a muslim  in their hearts not really believing in  the religion because they know that this  is so fundamental to fitting in and  having connections with people so um  yeah we were  talking off-camera about you know making  the conscious decision to get involved  with people who you know um  are not you are not connecting on this  on this level like you know  and deciding what in what ways you can  relate to them  um  you know if you are not going to be able  to uh bridge that let me let me ask you  this because again like i i want you we  can talk about the kind of universal  global uh generalizations but i think  it's worthwhile for both of us  the significance of this in our own  lives who are both people who have dealt  with and do deal with and looking  forward to the future  continue to deal with the forever alone  you know uh issue the meme if you like  you know it's more than just a meme  you know  um  the islamic example is very  straightforward in a sense  in that if you go to high school and you  already know you're an atheist and you  go to university you already know you're  an atheist you can very easily visualize  and touch and see  the alienation between yourself and 99  of people in society someone gave the  example of being an atheist at a  catholic school yeah you totally realize  okay right you know um  at what point though did you start  feeling alone or perceive yourself alone  compared to the other people you went to  high school with  compared to the other people you went to  university with because like from my  perspective around age 23 24  i think you were still reflecting on  that like i remember remember you  talking about some friends you still had  some distant connection with you known  in university and you were still kind of  philosophizing about like  gee really like like you even really  kind of hate this person you know i mean  like you were kind of admitting to  yourself i guess i've always hated her  and she's really a terrible person and  you know you you were still kind of  feeling that out but like to to  recognize yourself as alone and to  recognize that alienation i remember you  talking about that and like you  reflecting on the extent to which your  own roommates and your own friends in  college they wouldn't admit things to  you and wouldn't discuss things with you  that they did admit to their other  friends  by the way it was stuff like getting  drunk and sleeping around you know like  like when there was this sense in which  they really weren't treating you as a  friend and weren't trusting you and  there was this this alienation there  yeah so you say what you know  and look you know maybe i'm like i don't  know what she's gonna say i'm not i  really don't but do you think there was  a point of recognizing the alienation do  you think there was a point where that  changed for you  we thought that's a good question like  today okay today here we are 2021 2022  the end of 2021. i know that today when  you look at the facebook profiles of  people you knew in high school or people  you know university people from your  hometown generally you think wow i have  nothing in common with these people i'm  totally alienated you know what i mean  you recognize that alienation right away  but there was a time when you didn't and  you recognized we've talked about we've  talked about moving back to our hometown  we have we've talked about like living  there for whether it's for five years or  ten years or forever we've talked about  the possibility of making that our home  and like you recognize now right away  whoa like you know there is this  profound alienation if i go back there i  am going to be alone i am not going to  live my life with those people they are  not you know  [Music]  yeah so so but the question i'm putting  to you is yeah  do you think there was a turning point  that do you think there was a  recognition  it's a good question because  [Music]  uh  yeah so i was 22 years old when i became  vegan so veganism is something that like  almost automatically alienates you from  people that you know you used to have  respect for  once you've introduced these topics to  these people that you've known these  connections that you've had and they are  not receptive to it at all  that is that was a big source of  alienation for me  because i thought that  if they just knew what i knew they would  change their ways they would they would  not be eating meat if they knew that  this was  what was going on  um  so i  think probably at that stage that's when  i started to feel more and more  alienated from people  however or maybe you recognized and  analyzed and understood the alienation  that was always there because no offense  i i just have heard her talk i think  that it already was there there was a  sense in which you were alone or alone  in the crowd  going in yes that  thank you yeah you've said it to me a  lot like you recognize other girls had  best friends and close friendships and  you didn't like you you philosophized  about that a lot during the time we've  been again that there was this sense in  which you were alone and these people  yeah okay all right something that  you've said to me is if i'm going to be  honest i want to be all the way honest  and uh yeah so i i guess i'm introducing  that as like  that is the that is the time when i was  able to really like conceptualize it and  you know pin it pin it down on something  like you know some behavior like eating  meat  but  even when i was younger you know i i was  committed to sobriety and i had  you know  in high school like i did feel alienated  from other people because of that  commitment and because of you know that  i wasn't sleeping around and that was  when i started noticing that people were  not like sharing with me what they were  doing because i don't know if they were  worried about being judged by me or  whatever it was so so yeah um you know  i'm not going to say that it just  started with veganism but that's when i  started really like  parsing  this in my mind like what what is this  that's alienating me from people  um but yeah no i mean i i i grew up with  the influence that  if it's possible you should try to be  friendly with people you should try to  you know find what uh  what could bind you what what could uh  you know  bond you together what what what common  interests you share and um generally i i  found it uh  you know  in order to be a polite person or  whatever like i did want to not really  be honest with myself that i really  hated people or you know like for them  but again cutting to the chase a little  bit here there's a difference between  being friendly  and being your friend yeah and that was  the reality of your life there were a  lot of people you were friendly with  but they're not your friends  yeah and no i mean you know i'm not  saying this to shame you were saying but  i think you can reflect most of your  life before you met me i think it's fair  to say you had no friends you know you  you had a boyfriend who was in love with  you and somewhat obsessive about you all  everyone who's i've been a relationship  with was obsessed with me by the way but  a lot of obsessive  ex-girlfriends and whatever you know uh  so i'm not saying that in any very  loaded way but you know it's different  it's different being in a relationship  with someone who doesn't particularly  care about you or as a detached addition  someone who's obsessive about you i've  had that experience i think you've had  that experience too being in relation to  someone who's obsessed with you but your  boyfriend aside i mean i really i really  think you you wanted friendship but  there was this sense in which you were  alone and again being friendly with  people being polite with people that is  not  friendship and just really briefly you  guys know i've lived in thailand i've  lived in laos who lives in cambodia when  you are yourself an emigre when you are  yourself an immigrant a person living  out of  out of your own native language and  cultural circumstances you can see that  distinction much more  clearly like in my relationships with  thai people ocean people cambodian  people okay this is someone who's  friendly towards me this is someone i  have some level of cooperation with yeah  but they're not my friend you know like  it's maybe easier to kid yourself when  everyone's speaking the same language  you know  and you're you're from the same culture  or from the same neighborhood or from  the same school  yeah no that's  that's a good point actually that's  something i hadn't really considered the  the experience of living in china and  and yes like just  meeting with people who who don't speak  who aren't from your same town like just  from like your your same community  the same country you know like then you  start to analyze relationships in a  different way that that's  yeah i could say more about that but i  don't want that to be the main topic of  the conversation here yeah so sam walsh  comments uh quote despite differences  with my friends i focus on the ways i  can connect with them i think that's  more productive than total isolation i  speak of our differences sometimes but i  can only do so much there this isn't a  black and white problem he says quote i  don't cut my parents off despite her  profound differences i work with what i  do have in common but it does limit the  relationship right but okay so sam i  don't know your situation  you may or may not be alone right but  that's what we're talking about in this  video there are some people and  obviously  almost everyone has parents a few people  were raised in an orphanage or an  institution the vast majority of us have  parents  but you can have parents and be alone  you can have parents with the only  conversations you know that short phone  call where you check up it's this very  limited  kind of you know procedural relationship  you know oh you're not in jail you're  not in the hospital good you know like  really you know that's it are you you  poor you need money you got a problem  that well that's really about it it's a  very transactional issue you know and  some people  would really say they're not alone  because they have a tremendously  meaningful close relationship with their  parents now i'm going to digress into  something here that i knew i was going  to talk about in this video  if you're looking at the reddit group  forever alone or if you're listening to  people complaining about being alone  which by the way i support i think if  you've got a problem  it's a wonderful thing to be able to  come on the internet complain about it  you should come and make a youtube video  like it's great i'm i don't think i do  not think people who have this problem  should shut up about it or silence  themselves just like no you know talk  about it think about it and maybe you  can make progress maybe you can take a  different attitude different full  subcontinent  um  uh  great no derailment  [Laughter]  okay  you want to jump in just something you  want to say  um i no i was just waiting but  um if it comes to you let me know sorry  so this is this is sam uh talking about  cutting off his parents or not yeah okay  i guess i could you know i could expand  upon that because you know somebody  who's listening in the audience might  you know i i i don't disagree with you i  think that it's true that i've lacked  friends and  it is there is a big difference between  being friendly and having friends or you  know what the meaning of friendship is  uh  yeah no it's it's uh definitely  something that i've  dealt with my whole life basically  yeah so yeah and you're going to deal  with in the future i mean whether better  or worse i mean i i obviously i think  your life has improved a lot i think  you're totally prepared now to go into  the decade of your 30s much yeah much  better prepared but yeah  um so what i was going to say is this if  you are reading so i've reclaimed my  train of thought by the way uh  you know if you are reading the  discourse that's on the  forever along reddit group with these  other public forums  it will occur to you a lot of these  people dehumanize  the other people in their lives a lot of  these people live in a very asymmetrical  unfair sort of way i'm going to give a  really shallow example first then i'm  going to get deeper  a lot of these people for example feel  that they themselves are tremendously  obese they're they're unattractive and  overweight  but they don't expect to be in a  relationship with someone else who's  also obese and overweight they're living  with the expectation  obviously a tragic expectation they're  aware as a treasury exhibition they want  to be loved by desired by have  relationship with someone who is slender  and fit and athletic or very attractive  now obviously you know we're all human  it's not hard to relate to that that  kind of asymmetry well okay that's  that's a really shallow example  i think on a deeper level part of what's  going on is they don't just look at  other people as other people it's very  hard to look at your own parents and  think well these are just people these  are just people who happen to be my  parents you know what i mean and then to  evaluate them that way and evaluate the  relationship that way you're like okay  well this is who my father is this is  who my mother is what kind of  relationship can i really have with them  give you know and just think about the  kind of guy is if he weren't my father  if she weren't my mother would this  person be my friend with any part of my  life for most of us the answer is no you  don't have that much compliment there  are people who happen to be your parents  if you let yourself evaluate them as  people you'll understand that many of  the people in the forever alone  discourse not all many  in the same way that someone who's  enormously fat may yearn for a  relationship with someone who's in great  shape who's slender or athletic you know  without feeling that it's incumbent upon  them to match that level of  self-discipline and commitment to to  fitness in the same way there's this  sense of going through life rejecting  others for not living up to your  standards your intellectual standards  your ethical standards whatever it is  while expecting unfairly that others  aren't going to reject you in that same  way  seeing others in terms of the wish  fulfillment fantasy seeing others in  terms of how you want them to make you  feel or what role you want them to play  you have nothing about now at the start  of this video my way of framing it very  much excludes this uh this train of  thought  i was really saying like look  if you are an atheist living in a muslim  society you have to understand it's  reciprocal the rejection is reciprocal  so like i'm an atheist i'm not really  comfortable being in this kind of  relationship with someone who's a  profound believer in the muslim faith  but by the same token i can understand  their discomfort living with me like  having a close intimate relationship  that reciprocal  sense of fairness is very often missing  from the uh from the forever long  discourse and again so to come closer to  your experience  it might be very difficult for you back  at age 22  uh she's 29 hours away but like let's  say we travel for you at age 22 from  melissa at age 22 to get on an airplane  and go on a skiing vacation in banff  national park and for you to feel  rejected and alienated and alone  it might be very difficult for you to  say yeah you're damn right  like i reject these people they're not  gonna and from their perspective they  reject me that makes sense  i think for most people that's  incredibly hard to live with it's  incredibly hard to accept and it's  incredibly hard to think through in even  a kind of fair and even-handed way so  again putting a human face on it  i reject my parents many of you in the  audience do too all right but it seems  very hard for people to accept and they  also reject me like i judge them they  judge me you know and and you know i  judge them negatively they just realize  negatively your parents may be muslim  and you're an atheist you're vegan your  parents you meet  whatever your parents are left-wing and  your right-wing whatever the sources of  alienation are well you know your father  is just a guy he's a human being who  happens to be your parent the person and  the person at the gym you have a crush  on or the person your co-worker the  person in the office you have a question  they are a person who just happens to be  sexually attractive to you you know  they're they're a person right but  there's like their rejection of you  it's probably gonna line up pretty well  with your rejection of everyone in  society generally and god knows i get it  you may feel like hey i'm so attracted  to this person i'm willing to overlook  the fact that they're muslim i'm willing  to overlook the fact that they smoke  cigarettes i want to overlook the fact  they eat meat or they have a pet dog or  whatever there's things i don't like but  they're hot so i'm like wait and they  don't feel that way about you right  that's not reciprocal that's not mutual  but the sources of alienation are still  there the reasons why you're alone are  still there yeah yeah now look you tell  me so i mean in your own life  do you feel there was some of that  asymmetry there before you got involved  with me i know  you know what i mean it's oh yeah i  definitely  made a lot of uh sacrament not  sacrifices but compromises with who i  was  involved with you know right  but but and then you're hoping other  people will make those compromises for  you that your friendship is going to be  rewarded and returned yeah and yeah yeah  um  i can  thank you  um  yeah i mean in your case it is partly  because you're so good-looking there  have always been men  wanting to be in relationships you and i  have talked about that you really have  never had a time in your life where  there weren't men willing to  you know take the step and commit or  weren't trying to  get your relationship with you know  again when you're 45 that may be  different you're 55 that may be  different but for you as a young woman  in your teenage years and 20s there have  always been men willing to lay it down  the way but i think it is significant  that when sex is taken out of the  equation the extent to which you did  struggle with still the deep underlying  issues of hashtag forever alone right  yeah absolutely yeah the when i uh first  mentioned this uh internet romance  uh my first uh basically first crush and  first uh real heartbreak or feeling like  you know  uh  yeah feeling that a sense of heartbreak  um  you know that that older  boy i don't know i guess he was like 17  or 18 when i was 14. um you know  he was interested in me you know he  asked me you know sexual questions like  he was he was interested in me like all  the way um but you know  he was willing to so if you were 14 he  was willing to roll the dice son ended  up in jail or something yeah probably  i mean it's a good thing it's a good  thing my parents intervened when i was  having conversations with him on the  phone at like two in the morning or  whatever but you know  i i just i never did anything like that  like we're talking about when i was 17  or something and you know i think partly  like like women my own age were already  so immature like you know like i'm 17  year old brother seven years old that  like the thought of being around like  even just talking to someone who was  even more immature was was really yeah  like i was struggling to have  friendships with people my own age but  yeah it would have been easier for me to  be in french people than me  not a brag but come on guys but i was  saying in terms of what life is like  when you're 17. that never occurred to  me but i know a lot of guys are and  there were a lot of there are a lot of  criminal charges a lot of controversy it  is quite common for 17 year old guys to  be with a 15 year old girl or 16 or  whatever to for there to be a little bit  of an age gap but at that stage every  year is a long time it's a big  difference in maturity and life  experience and responsibility the  difference between being 19 and being 16  is a big at that stage because people  are so ignorant and so helpless anyway  like you know it's a big deal but anyway  so video but this guy was 18 19 and he  was born yeah i know he was willing to  get hands on with a 14 year old all  right i believe that's a that's a prison  of an imprisonable offense but am i yeah  anyway um yeah no it's it's uh just  despite that i didn't have the words for  it i i did not conceptualize myself as  right yeah i i i'm 29 now so i'm able to  reflect on it and you know realize what  all the factors that were at play there  and you know like you say the the uh  just being an attractive person i guess  uh did in france  what did i i mean i don't know i  remember who i was at that time like i i  was i was me you know i was melissa  right but but let's let's be real you  were you were still no  you were still playing with dolls you  were still playing video games before i  know what it is certainly yeah playing  videos just interesting  um so um for sure like but it is still  for me like i i still know the feeling  of of thinking that even if people are  interested in you it doesn't mean i'm  interested in them and like you know i  did feel like i was making a compromise  with my first relationship that this was  somebody that  just wasn't compatible with me in a lot  of ways but um i i did still want to be  in love with somebody you know i still  want the experience but it's like it  comes back to the same idea if it's if  you aren't able to relate on these very  basic ways like in in ways that you find  um you know that you have respect for  the other person and that person  respects you and for like the same  reasons then then what kind of  relationship do you have and once i  realized that like once i was able to be  honest with myself like  i just couldn't believe that i'd  let that  relationship continue for so long and  like push it and continued when it was  incompatible the whole time you know  so um hopefully that makes sense  somebody asked me what do i mean with  compromises you know like um  that's  are are you going to um pretend that you  are okay with somebody doing drugs when  right when you're really not are you  well so just to clarify grammatically  you make a compromise  for something right now for a lot for  many people  they are making a compromise  so that they're not alone like you don't  want to be alone so for the purpose of  not being alone for the purpose of you  know so for some people it's just sex  for some people it's love for some  people's having children i look you know  there are men who are homosexual but  they choose to pretend to be  heterosexual so they can have children  all kinds of things they make a  compromise but like  look  some people it's very shallow they're  like oh this guy is too ugly or this  woman is too ugly but they are going to  compromise so that they cannot belong  for a lot of people it's not  physical characteristics right it's  ethical characteristics intellectual  characteristics this person is not smart  enough for me in some complex sense this  person is not good enough for me but you  decide to make a compromise for a reason  and you know the type of reason we're  talking about here is the contrast  between being  forever alone and you know having some  kind of relationship or group of  relationships you know yeah  i would just live in your life  but most people don't feel that way and  you've been through that too where you  didn't feel that way yeah oh yeah you  didn't feel like oh i'd be better off  being alone than making this compromise  no exactly right if i had then i  wouldn't get well and you know i think  you know  as a young person you were more ruled by  instincts you know now i could  generalize and say we all are but maybe  not everyone has a lot of people are  where you're ruled by really animal  instincts that include again instincts  are not just sex you know they're really  not they go beyond that wanting to feel  safe wanting to feel part of a community  you want to feel part of a group like  there are there were a lot of instincts  involved here but those animal instincts  were probably you know gnawing away at  you it's not some purely yeah yeah  absolutely  um we got a very simple question here  when are you moving to la and it  certainly relates to the topic of this  video one of the main reasons to live in  l.a is to try to be around other highly  ambitious people be around ambitious  people be recreative people be around  people who want to change the world and  both of us hope we live lives that are  less alone in l.a i mean i can look  around this town we live in victoria  canada currently and yeah there were  like so many places called victoria on  planet earth i have to say victoria so  there are a lot of towns named victoria  um you know if i if we live the rest of  our lives in victoria we're going to be  totally alone uh inclu even when you  look within the subcategory of of people  who have something in common so i'm  going to come back to this but really  briefly guys i i kind of meant to say  this earlier it didn't  if you think i'm not alienated from this  culture i could start up uh tinder right  now on my phone i don't think it's  installed i have to download install it  but like if i start up the tinder app  and start paging through  like the degree of alienation between  myself and other women my own age i  think tinder wants to show you people in  the same age bracket it's unbelievable  like you know i could sit here and do a  stand-up comedy routine oh yeah look at  this [ __ ] here she is and you know  women really photograph themselves put  themselves on tinder with you know the  the defining iconography of their life  on camera here one of the most popular  things is for them to show themselves  drinking alcohol and throwing an axe  it's a it's a trend here in the pacific  or going ax throwing you know what i  mean like here is this woman with her  dog  grilling steak drinking alcohol like  here are her hobbies your interest in  life  you know displayed for you in just a few  pictures you know also there are people  who make a display of what they're into  in terms of pop culture they show  various things about their life what is  that consumes their their time and  imagination well you know i am really  alienated from those people and you know  it may be that i'm physically attracted  to some of them not many and maybe that  some of them are attracted to me and  again that's like guys once you get past  like 22  the vast majority of people you are  attracted to are already married or in a  relationship that is tantamount to  marriage that is as serious as murder  you can just be boyfriend and girlfriend  but it's serious like you know where and  you know are you willing to do that do  you want to go break up someone else's  relationship so you can have a swing at  this you can try you never swing at that  you know  um  anyway yeah i'm just saying when you  talk about this kind of alienation and  isolation aloneness if i go through  tinder  it tells you something something about  me  tells you it tells you a lot about the  culture i'm living in the social  political context of living you get a  [ __ ] cross-section of the canadian  middle-aged mind leafing through tinder  now this isn't the only uh cross-section  i can take i could sit here now and rant  to you about the type of people i meet  on the university campus at the  university of victoria all ages so  that's like age 18 through 65 because  there are elderly professors and people  getting phds phd level students can be  quite quite a bit older and there are  people who go back after  dropping out you know as middle-aged  people so not just talking with young  people i can sit here and you know dish  about the types of imbeciles i meet and  interact with on the university campus  we're not going to do this on the point  of this but like you know  yeah it may not be as obvious as the  difference between atheist and muslim in  a muslim majority society but yeah i am  alienated from the culture here and you  know i reject those people  and they reject me the rejection is  mutual and in a city like los angeles  there's the possibility that there will  be five people 10 people 50 people that  there will be some number of people that  have enough in common with me  enough in common with melissa that they  really share our lives in a meaningful  way and that we are not hashtag forever  alone living in l.a has involves  terrible sacrifices  it is not paradise and we've been to  paradise we've been we've spent time in  thailand together i've lived in thailand  more long term than she has i can still  speak to thai language i'd have to work  to brush up it's been so many years but  still like i have the fundamentals of  tai and laotian as languages and  just mention when i hear people speaking  in lotion on the news you know watching  news it's really weird the way that  party or brain starts to wake up again  but anyway uh you know  there  in some ways thailand is paradise in  some ways laos is paradise in some ways  the south of france is paradise in some  ways athens greece is paradise los  angeles is not paradise but you know you  wanted to make that sacrifice and this  is a big part of it so that you are not  hashtag forever speaking of which guys  uh hit the thumbs up button if you can  we got 43 people in the audience which  is great i appreciate you being here you  know i live stream with really no  warning but guys if you change your mind  later you can you can undo the thumbs up  button but it'll help more people join  the conversation now and also people  discover the scope of the video so  anyway um  here's here's a flattering comment uh  ahri says melissa is going to get a lot  of attention in l.a well look melissa is  a good-looking woman  but  no compared to being in china  when we were in dil hong china melissa  got a lot of attention you were the  beauty queen of the hong china if we  moved to japan  you know come on people will be all over  people be freaking out  in los angeles people are not going to  stop their cars on the street and offer  me a job teaching kids on the spot oh  right and if you've been in a bigger  city people have been offering you a job  as a lounge singer or to work in a  nightclub you know there's that kind of  work too oh good-looking white woman  yeah they'd want to recruit you to be a  beauty be a beautiful woman working in a  nightclub you know what i mean whatever  being the maitre d or something you know  that all that working in restaurants and  stuff too so i think what they want but  we're also doing modeling and acting  what we're going to say i was just going  to say los angeles is a place where the  most beautiful people go so i doubt that  yes  no no no no no no no no no so you know  do you remember we went down so we've  been to los angeles before you remember  we went down to the beach  and there were there was that area where  people were playing volleyball  yeah like holy [ __ ] there were good  looking people playing men and women  you're in l.a on the  have to be at a beach of criticism  some of these were middle-aged women  there would be women who were 50 years  old playing volleyball but they were  like the best looking like you were a  fifth year older ago wow i didn't know  that existed so if if melissa is playing  beach volleyball in los angeles she does  not stand out  and you you blend in but no if we if we  went to japan i think japan's a good  example then sure you know everyone's  going to be fawning over you as a great  beauty and so on but in l.a no i mean i  think um well and another good example  so i've mentioned this before i was  invited to do work as an actor when i  was in uh kunming i didn't oh i was  gonna say didn't go to auditions i went  to one actually i auditioned for partner  movie once in quebec but anyway i wasn't  i wasn't generally hunting it down but i  talked to some people in the movie  industry there so yes someone like  myself and someone melissa if we were in  china if we were in japan if we were in  south korea we probably would be offered  acting roles right away it's just a  reasonably good looking white person who  can work a microphone  but you know no but in la  no yeah i mean competition is fierce  anyway you guys can go way back i've  talked about my channel for for so many  years one of the most notorious videos  on my channel so i was saying this about  nina and randa my fellow youtubers nina  miranda it's like look if nina and randa  go to an audition in los angeles nobody  thinks of the most beautiful woman there  you know nobody's going to make it easy  for you now that doesn't mean you can't  win you know again this is all about  living a meaningful life blah blah blah  but no uh  yeah if anything the two of us will be  uglier about la standards  compared to victoria here  but you know good looks good looks only  matter so much in life i i'm sure as  hell uh  i i never wake up and think i wish i was  going to to be a model in los angeles  it's not  not the way i want to compete in life  not the kind of life  sorry just uh just catching up with your  comments guys  oh  i could talk about bumble because right  sure i've used it for bumble bff  the friend finding  app um  the the part of the app  no but let me just say so bumble bumble  is partly a dating app and it's partly a  friend finding app but i do think that  relates to our conversation here i think  when we moved to victoria both times we  moved here once and then we moved back  again a few years later  i think there was a real question of to  what extent are you going to be hashtag  forever alone even though she has me so  she's together but you know she has one  great relationship in her life but  you know um  and as i recall when we moved back here  you really said this time you were going  to make a big effort  the first time you did go to a couple  events with me both in vancouver and  victoria where you kind of sort of could  have made friends with people but i  think you recognized that one reason why  you didn't have friends was that you  weren't making that difference okay this  time i'm gonna make the effort and you  signed up and did bumble bff the friend  fighting at bubble yeah yes i met i met  about three or four women  and uh  face to face yeah there were more people  he had messages but yeah face to face  you met yeah so  actually meeting in person and having a  conversation which i felt all the  conversations were good i  you know i didn't feel i had i struggled  with conversation with anybody but it's  uh  it's i don't know if this is a area  specific or if it's canada as a whole  generally  but on almost all the profiles that i  see they say  you know i know how hard it is to make  friends as an adult but  victoria especially  yes so there seems to be this idea that  like in victoria this is this is the  sense i get from having scrolled through  and then the sad thing is the next thing  they say is who wants to meet up with  meet up for drinks at the night club  okay so  definitely  somebody  i'm looking for a crew of girls i can go  to the nightclub with get drunk and  party there's a lot of that oh god yeah  there's definitely a lot of that um a  lot of a lot of nerds also saying they  want to smoke marijuana and play video  games with people yeah someone to come  over get stoned  for sure there's that uh and also i have  a dog and i want somebody to walk dogs  with me or  help me walk my dog  um and yeah i  it's it's uh just this week this past  week i i went on uh bumble bff again  and  yeah it was it was uh  definitely that based on the cross  section of what i saw it's it's people  who  have relationships with their dog  basically and then spend most of their  time alone or working  virtually and it reminds you of how  alienated you are from the culture and  from most people here or perhaps  everyone here yeah yeah absolutely um  yeah i  definitely find the pet thing as being  endemic  to  western culture is that  i guess i should say at epidemic levels  well look you can correct me i'm wrong  though i think that your experience  meeting those women face to face the few  women you did meet with through bumble  bff i  disagree with me want to or take your  directions but i think it reminded you  of the kind of threshold or the kind of  barrier to entry of  am i really going to try to  trust this person let them into my life  share my life with them and if so what's  in it for me and what's in it for them  where you know there's this feeling of  okay i know you i've had coffee with you  you know but are are we actually going  to become friends am i you know i mean  trust i know trust is a loaded word but  like it's not okay how many people do  you tell how much you hate your own  parents your problems  one of the reasons you don't tell other  people that is because what's the point  like it's not even like you think oh if  i tell them about how bad my  relationship with my parents says  they're going to go on the internet or  go talk to a journalist and they're  going to expose me like it's not like  trust in terms of secrecy but if you  don't have a high level of trust  why should like why would you tell them  why would they listen why would you know  it's not you know so yeah i mean you  know criminal but i think you did you  know with with the meetings kind of  short-term attempts at friendship the  other zone there was a feeling of an  awareness of like okay you get up to a  certain threshold and there's this  question of is it worth it what's the  point absolutely that was right that was  a huge part of the experience that i had  with trying to make these friendships  with people in  my late 20s is that  number one i did have the experience  with revealing some personal information  and finding that  it really meant nothing because  it meant  less to me than it did with sharing with  somebody that i  would really want to know  and uh that somebody that i trusted so  when you share some of these things with  people that you have no relationship  with no connection with really um  this is i mean this is partly why i find  the relationship that people have with  therapists yes to be that productive  because okay you can you can share this  kind of information about yourself and  about your relationship with your  parents uh you know but where where  where is it going from here and um what  does this mean so yeah i did have that  but i also had the other person  doing the same for me like  just  piling on every all their trauma like at  once like telling me everything that has  happened like wrong and what's what's  been tragic in their lives  and wanting to comfort them but at the  same time feeling like wow this you know  this person's like literally crying in  front of me like what should i do you  know we don't even know each other i  mean it is like quickly like building  this  bond between you and i i wish no harm on  the people i you know i wish i wish only  rest for these people but um yeah there  were there were just things that seem to  be  um  barriers between us whether it's meat  eating whether it's uh uh just drinking  alcohol doing drugs like what what they  actually do with their lives  which is  who  yeah and people cheating on their  boyfriends and girlfriend stuff so so  you know i don't know if i'd say i only  had one friend who's from here in  victoria but it's pretty close look at  you know maybe it was two or three or  something like yeah there were a few  people in this city who were my friends  but one of the few were not going to say  her name  she was a she was a woman who  cheated on her boyfriend during the time  that she was friends with me  and she several times called me up for  moral support when she was at that time  actively lying to her boyfriend and  cheating on him and was there was more  than one  person  she pursued like where she was trying to  cheat on her boyfriend or whatever and i  remember just very surprising she knew  my youtube channel she knew me we knew  each other face to face we were friends  face to face and i was nice to her in  saying this but like you're saying in  the nicest way possible like look i  you are doing the wrong thing you know  um i can put it to you i you know what  you know that you're doing the wrong  thing and here's the right thing to do  by the way i wasn't saying she should be  true to the guy like you should break up  with this guy first and then pursue this  other relationship you know what you  know it's not like i'm saying uh she  should she should remain committed to  the same boyfriend she wasn't happy with  him blah blah blah but the way to be  unhappy with your boyfriend is not lying  to him deceiving him cheating on him and  so and so forth and i'll support that  and you know uh  sh that that that and again she was nice  to me back on the phone but that ended  the friendship you know her sense that i  was judging her even though she knew i  was right and she got in touch with me  later and told me that so it's not just  my opinion it's not like me saying to  you  i she knew i was right she has said that  to me she has said to me directly look i  knew you were right i knew what i was  doing was all right she knows now or  whatever you know that's how she looks  back on it also but she never got over  it so you know when you were saying  before building up this kind of  friendship or bond or togetherness of  somebody it's also a question of what is  it for you know yeah and depending on  what walk of life you're in you may not  have to question that all that much but  you know  are you in an alliance with people for a  lot of people you're just in the last  people in order to go out get drunk and  cheating your boyfriend you're an  alliance people to go and do things that  you think are naughty but entertaining  right you know it's part of a reckless  life of self-intelligence when you don't  have that  what is this friendship for  and um  again you guys can tell i'm a gregarious  person i'm i'm good at talking whatever  you want to say i have good social  skills whatever it's not that but you  know you might be underestimating just  the extent to which i am alone because  of this kind of ethical incompatibility  with with other people and they feel it  you know no matter how nice i am they  feel judged they feel they're not living  up to my standards i've had people tell  me directly like like in exactly these  words that when they're with me they  feel stupid when they're with me they  feel they don't live up to my  intellectual standards they feel like  i've had people say that to me  even more bluntly than that they say  when i'm around you i feel dumb you know  when i'm around you i like i feel like  i'm not living up to this higher  standard of you know reading and  learning things all the time and having  interesting things to talk about i've  had people say to me that they don't  want to be friends with me because they  feel that they don't have enough  interesting things to say whereas i  always have interesting things sometimes  yeah  yeah it looks it ain't deep but it's  real it's shallow and it's profound at  the same time you know so you can live  your life alone because you're too  interesting a person not because you're  too boring a person i really mean that  and i'm really in a position to say that  and i can say that when i was hanging  out with people who were all enrolled in  phd programs in cambridge england like  people like people of high levels of  formal education but they're [ __ ]  boring shallow stupid people you know  yeah in terms of finding somebody that  will engage in  naughty night of debauchery with you or  something yeah yeah um i've had people  like pressure me  and not really believe that i live a  sober life they think that i'm just  pretending and i have had people uh say  you know oh just make an exception this  night like let's let's get drunk tonight  like let's yeah this is my special night  was that in detroit or was that he  written yeah it was um could you just  work in america in america  so yeah i've had people that like don't  respect my commitment to this and don't  like really they don't get it  [Laughter]  it's something i don't eat i don't even  think about it i don't crave alcohol you  know but like  but it is still something that every day  like i i make this choice you know i and  it's it's something that has taken  uh determination and discipline and i  don't want to just  drop that to have a fun night with you  and and um  you know i respect that and and  a lot of people don't they just  you know they want to live out kind of  childish ideas of what friendship is  that friendship should be  people uh making excuses for your bad  behaviors and uh if you want to  you know scream and dance and run around  and act  act like a kid act like a like a  i grew up  i grew up in ontario okay i grew up in  ontario there were many young men and  their sense of socialization came from  hockey  so ice hockey  you know you could call this little  league ice hockey but it's it's not the  actual term but they did some kind of  intramural small hockey league and  hockey was more than just hockey hockey  and again this could be like already  when they're 12 like 12 to 22. we super  life but they would meet up with guys  they their first experiences drinking  alcohol were linked to the hockey club  their first experiences having  heterosexual sex worthy  a lot of these guys had homosexual and  bisexual experiences through  team sports throughout a lot there's a  lot of that going on you know like you  know they still identify as straight but  you know  once once they've got the toga on or  something you know what i mean once  they're once they're getting drunk and  partying with you guys and then you know  what you're saying is still wanting to  have this childish thing very often okay  then they go from doing intramural  hockey to being a stock broker and  working on the stock market and many of  them in another exam where they still  are trying to reproduce that sense of  you know group clannish reckless  self-indulgence that they had when they  were a small league hockey player that  was when they felt they were with a  group of guys together and they may  continue playing hockey you can be a  middle-aged man who's in a hockey you  know amateur hockey club not not a real  serious but you know and obviously  there's some guys for whom that's  basketball you know my point is this  model extends to a lot of people's lives  but yes the sense of transgressive  risk-taking  and for them that's what friendship is  about maybe what their whole life  is about yeah  yeah the camaraderie that comes with um  a night out like that  yeah sense of danger right yeah exactly  i think um  i i definitely can see that being more  of a factor for men who have been  involved in team sports but  also like women who  yes they uh  get dressed up it's it's this occasion  it's kind of like just the act of  putting on makeup  um blow drying your hair and it can be  very tribal stress or something yes it's  very much a ritualistic  thing that  now i can engage in these behaviors that  i don't feel comfortable doing with on  my day earlier in the day or whatever in  some ways women they're putting on a  mask together and then they're going out  to a masquerade yep there's a lot of  that and for women too it may involve  lesbian and bisexual activity or group  sex other kinds of transgressive sexual  acts and a lot of people get get stuck  on that you know forever um so look guys  i really planned in this video to  address how this applies to me and i  just say you're like you know  it's one of these things being  self-confident doesn't mean you're not  alone being handsome doesn't mean you're  not alone being intelligent or being  brilliant doesn't mean you're not alone  there is a very understandable  assumption that struggling with being  forever alone is because you're stupid  it's maybe because you're lazy you're  self-indulgent it maybe is because  you're uncharismatic maybe because you  have a speech impediment like you're  really not good at talking one way or  another you have some kind of disability  physical or mental that prevents you  from from socializing with people there  is a real assumption that struggling  with being alone or being forever alone  is because of weakness rather than  strength now as we've already hinted at  it really can be because of the strength  and it can just be because you're  incompatible with the culture and  political circumstances you happen to be  born into again if you are an atheist  living in a majority muslim uh culture  if you are someone who rejects the  values and compromises that define the  the cultural circumstances around you  then you are alone whether you regard  that rejection as a as a weakness or a  strength uh there have been a couple  different people referring to someone  was saying that he went to a university  where every single person drank alcohol  no exceptions there were no sober people  at this at this university well i used  to live in scotland i used to live in  glasgow scotland and i think that would  have been 1991 1990 i could pin it down  exactly it's a long time ago  let me tell you at that time  you know there nobody was sober in  glasgow scotland i mean there was no  culture and no concept of sobriety the  dominance of alcohol drinking sports  watching culture was absolute and in my  university years this was really  really during my last year in high  school  um when i quit drinking and change  started to make the transition this more  intellectual way of living you're like  whoa and now i'm totally alone  like now i'm alone now i'm cut off from  again things change now i'm cut off from  the drinking culture and again look i  was self-confident i was well-spoken uh  i was handsome  and there were women who still wanted to  have sex with me in the circumstances  they met me to give an exam you know i  went i was reminded this because i was  talking to somebody else about writing  for the newspaper you know i remember  when there was a one year where i wrote  for the university newspaper  and the woman who was the president i  think of the newspaper as a student it's  the university newspaper she wanted to  sleep with me like you know right away  she's she's a smart interesting person  too she was okay like you know  uh i don't have anything against her you  know uh you know so the little bit of  social contact i had with other people  it did bring me into contact women who  wanted to have sex with me  but nevertheless like i was really alone  i was really cut off  from the culture i was born into  and again you guys i think many people  just because i'm self-confident because  i'm well-spoken because i'm objectively  like there's nothing wrong with my face  or body i'm six foot three i can bench  press more than 200 pounds i can do more  than 200 push-ups  there's a sense in which i'm in good  health and always have been like i've  never really been that far out of shape  and even even when i have more weight on  guess what guys  not all women are looking for a skinny  dude when i've i've been 20 pounds  heavier than i am now women still want  to [ __ ] me  being brilliant helps but you know i've  been in shape i've been strong even when  i had more body fat on  um being tall and strong  you know  well guess what you can still have to  struggle with and still have to  philosophize about being hashtag forever  alone now again a lot of you guys  haven't visualized it this way  when i was at the university of toronto  i was  alone yes there were women who wanted to  have sex with me i was  alone in exactly the sense you know  spent an hour you know i was explaining  to you totally alienated from the the  culture  well how do you think i felt when i was  living in thailand  like  a fascinating rewarding life in so many  ways but i was  alone like to illustrate this um i had a  girlfriend at the time this is when i  was with my blonde ex-girlfriend there  was one morning when we woke up early  and we were going to a particular museum  it was hard to get through so i could  fill in all the details but there's no  point so we woke up early it was 7 a.m  like it wasn't insanely early it was  something like that  and most of the shops were still closed  restaurants were still closed and so on  and uh at that time i was 90 vegan but i  identified as strictly a vegetarian i  would eat i would eat  parmesan cheese on pasta i had some  vegetarian but not vegan stuff in my  diet and you know so okay so we woke up  early and i think like we're going to  start the trap the trick to the trip to  this museum starts at 7 30 am or  something so go okay where can we get a  bite to eat or get some food and i was  assuming we're just gonna go to 7-eleven  go to a convenience store and buy some  vegetarian chocolate bars or something  but there was this restaurant that was  open  i was like oh wow great what a surprise  there's a restaurant doing breakfast you  know kind of the crack of dawn kind of  thing and so we go over and sit down and  we're really surprised the the menu is  in english because you know it could be  for local thai people but there's  obviously a place catering to  uh foreigners and we sit down and we  order some order some stuff it's a big  surprise and then the next surprise is a  whole series of  middle-aged and elderly white guys come  in and they say hi to me like i'm a  friend of theirs like they know me from  somewhere so yeah oh yeah  you know i i don't i don't know what's  up and again i'm going to this museum i  got my blonde uh girlfriend again she's  not an asian woman she's a white person  i knew from canada you know  and after a certain amount of time they  they turn on the tv  and what it was was this restaurant was  specially opened that morning  for the super bowl  and if it wasn't the super bowl was some  other major  football game in america i don't feel  sorry so like you know if someone checks  the calendar and like no that's  impossible because this is what i don't  know the support but there was some  important football game being  broadcasted in america and like the  title i don't know it's on at 6 00 p.m  in california which is 7 30 a.m in  thailand yeah you know they started  watching this thing and that's why they  were saying hi to me was they completely  assumed that i was another beer drinking  prostitute sleeping with  you know a long-term tourist or retired  person that i was a white man like them  in thailand for the same reasons they  were who was going to sit down and start  drinking beer at 7 30 in the morning and  you know like first thing in the day  they did all those guys ordered drinks  and started drinking first thing in the  morning while watching you know a  broadcast american sports game so look  you know  um  like in this same sense you know when i  was in toronto  i was alone when i was in thailand i was  alone and being handsome and being  self-confident and being able to get  laid it doesn't solve the problem and i  really had to philosophize about it and  you had to ask yourself is this worth  doing is it worthwhile to remain  committed to the things that are making  me alone that are making me a pariah  in this culture in the same way that  someone an atheist might consider  converting to islam just so they can  live a better life within within that  culture sure you know i had to i had to  really think about it but guys so i just  said my current attitude is maybe not  that significant this video but now i'm  a mean old man i'm 43 years old and so  on right  but like you know um  a lot of you in the audience will not  appreciate and you will not have ever  imagined that i'm someone who really  identifies with and relates to this  hashtag forever alone but it has been a  huge part of my life and in a meaningful  sense it still is you know now uh  i i can put some other hypotheticals  into just to perspective okay  you know  what if melissa and i have a child in  los angeles we don't have definite plans  we may have a kid we may not you know  it's there's more than one possible  future okay  i have to go  and meet the parents of the other  children  at that school  you know like dude like i'm alone like i  really am alienated from this and again  i may not complain you know there's no  not necessarily any drama not  necessarily any conflict like  being alone doesn't mean there's  conflict or trauma in your life it can  be not you can go and meet these people  and sit down in the room with them and  go through the motions but like dude you  know i am alone like the things that  bring me together in close contact with  or force me to cooperate with other  people in that society they're only  going to illustrate or demonstrate again  the the depth and extent of that  alienation the extent to which i still  am in some ways you know forever alone  well  [Music]  we had a conversation earlier this week  that  went really in depth with this about  human nature about our requirements  biologically versus  intellectually like what we desire from  people like from our relationships  um  and this desire to reach out to people  like even in that example if if this is  some  parent as  parents that your child is going to  school with uh  the parents of the child that your your  child is going to school with um it  would make sense for you to like want to  have some relationship with them right  like  i know this is a hypothetical thing but  people deal with this people you know  they want to have  parents that they can have play dates  with their kids to set up play dates so  be a member of the parent teacher  association absolutely yeah and that  doesn't have to be a religious thing you  know can you can just find people um at  your your kids  preschool or your kid's daycare  um so yeah i think uh you know we all  have this  kind of  urge to find other people that we can  you know collaborate with and cooperate  with  um  and at what point do you decide that  they are not uh worth it or you know  it's it's uh incompatible but most of  the time the rejection is mutual yeah  most time those people are suspicious of  me like that that's what i said like  it's pretty rare it's going to be my  choice  you're going to feel  yeah you're going to feel the alienation  you may actually feel disgusted about  these people you know yeah no that's  true yeah and they and again like this  thing i differ from a lot of the people  on that  reddit group in that i really do  sympathize the other side like i  understand okay for these other people  that's what their life is about that's  what's meaningful for them that's what  they cherish and you know they don't  even want me to exist you know they  don't want to be in any kind of contact  with me i'm you know they may find my  politics disturbing my religion  disturbing my ethical values what to me  is good for them is evil and vice versa  there's a really deep  mutual competition no that's that's  really true and especially when you add  a child into the mix like i don't have  my child associating right i remember  when i was uh raises the stakes yeah go  on yeah i i don't want to you know  extend this too much but i will just say  like this relates uh because when i was  in elementary school i had a i had a  friend and her mother identified as  she had yes  stickers on the back of her car that  said my other car is a broom um  broomstick wiccanism yes yes so  my mother was christian she was lutheran  and she wanted to raise me lutheran and  she was worried about this influence but  nevertheless she she knew that this was  my friend and i wanted to to hang out  with her and she uh she made this  compromise this uh you know if she had  been more  committed to  you know separating me from other people  from from seeing other  ways of life i guess  um you know she would have ended that  friendship or kept me from from being  friends with her  as a as an eight-year-old kid or  nine-year-old kid um so yeah i mean  yeah  yeah to what extent do you want to allow  your children to see other cultures  other or you know be influenced by other  people and what what you consider evil  um you know some people might consider  us evil because we're nihilistic atheist  people and you know  we're tearing we want to tear down the  things that they  hold dear to them and precious to them  so yeah i recognize it is mutual  alienation there um well and another  example in our lives is you know i  reject people who are communist and  people who are communists reject me you  know i'm an anti-communist that might  sound controversial well have you been  on a university campus in the 21st  century  [ __ ] half of the professors are  communists i have to deal with  professors who are active members of the  communist party and again they perceive  me as evil and i perceive them as evil  you know yeah  so uh it's shallow and it's deep at the  same time and and people who are less  intellectual than we are they may not  think it through and assign words to it  they may just experience it as a kind of  panic as a kind of revulsion you know  look my fellow vegans feel that way  about me so i i am vegan or i happen to  be vegan but there are all these vegans  who devote their lives to running a  petting zoo i've talked to vegans  they're like oh they have 35 pets living  in their apartment they don't own a  house they live in an apartment with 35  pets now go yeah i rescued this cat from  here i rescued this from there and oh we  have to keep these animals in separate  rooms in separate cages because they'll  kill each other like they got 35 animals  in their [ __ ] apartment you know  that's their whole life  it's not their whole life but you know a  lot  you know they're they're devoted that  you know so i mean  someone that might be a little bit  interested in me in my my way of  thinking in my philosophy but there's  again they may not think it through  they're going to reject me and i'm going  to reject them they're all these things  so you know what this comes down to it's  both the social instincts and the  anti-social instincts you know we have  anti-social instincts for for a reason  too  um but look today i mean i'm putting  myself in the mindset of a younger man  or a younger woman for different reasons  today i am a hundred percent at peace  with being forever alone now i don't  have plans to do this but guys i could  move to thailand and live in thailand  for the rest of my life and not give a  [ __ ] that i'm forever i don't care at  all and like if i'm living in thailand  you know there are like european  tourists american tourists australian  tourists it's one kind of person but  where i'm forever alone like there's  really no  and then of course there's the entire  population of thailand then there are  chinese people too there are other asian  like there are japanese people chinese  people but there are thai people in  thailand and i can get along with them  and live my life and totally embrace  being foreign but that's me now  that's me in my 40s right where i  already have a meaningful life i already  have a very firm grip on what i think  the meaning of life is and i can go  around with this tremendous sense of  self-confidence like yeah i know what's  up if you don't [ __ ] you you know what i  mean i you know like th this is my  meaningful life if you want to be a part  of it great if not you know jump off you  know i don't give a [ __ ] you know  that that's where i'm at now and it  would be difficult for me to figure out  at exactly what point my autobiography  i was there a hundred percent of the way  you know the other the other funny thing  about me is right now i'm writing a book  writing a book is a completely solitary  art form i don't really need anyone else  publishing a book is another thing if  any of you are involved in publishing  hit me up i'd love to have a real  publisher and i don't i can just dump it  on amazon but you know most of the  things i wanted to do with my life they  were social they did involve other  people cooperating together including  just politics including learning  languages and teaching languages a lot  of these things bring people together  and you have to cooperate closely with  people so you know my life would be  different if i were a painter or if i'd  consistently remain just an author just  focused on on writing in that way there  are things i could do that would have  would have cut me off from people sooner  but um  look for someone at my age and my stage  of the game it's difficult  to  [Music]  cast my mind back  to the feelings and attitudes i had at  like age 18  where it's like whoa i am alone and i am  forever alone  and  you know  i'm not saying this to insult people  you can be at that stage when you're 28  when you're 38 when you're 48. you can  be at that stage when you're 68  and your husband or wife died like maybe  you weren't forever alone your whole  life but you're forever alone now now  you're old and nobody likes you and  nobody cares about you you know so on  and so forth you know like  so you know my point is not to  trivialize it by saying you know i'm  thinking about how i felt at age at age  18.  uh and it can be it can be at any age  but like to really appreciate that sense  of  you know  this is this is a real simple  straightforward way to put it but it  gets it's it's deep you know  what am i alone  for  you know like you know if you join the  army what are you joining the army for  you know if you join the army and you're  assigned to a particular brigade a  particular platoon  why am i with these guys what am i with  these guys for well  i hope you know the answer if not leave  the army you know if you have a sense of  esprit de corps on purpose i'm working  with these guys to win this war to  achieve this objective you know to it or  even just to achieve excellence in the  particular job you have in the army like  you're going to be the best machine gun  operator you can possibly be it's just  that kind of you know pursuing  excellence for the sake of accident  whatever it is you know um  [Music]  you know you know  what you are together with these people  for well what are you alone for and is  it good enough and then i i think that  tears people apart because there were  people who made the decision whatever it  is you studied or whatever line of work  you got into i mean i used to be a  scholar of buddhism i had to ask myself  did i get into this to be alone  like do i want to keep doing this if i  am going to be hashtag forever alone  like oh yeah it's great being oh yeah  it's not great sorry i'm speaking  sarcastic i was going to say it's great  being the most brilliant person in the  field it's not it's horrible  nothing is worse than being the most  brilliant person in your field and not  because i was that brilliant but because  everyone else is a [ __ ] [ __ ] you  know what that's like it's horrible it's  terrible you know what it's like being  smarter than your own university  professor you know it's like being more  knowledgeable and more well-read in the  subject your professor has their phd in  it's awful and that was my experience in  buddhism again and again and again there  are these old men with phds and they  know less than i do they and already 20  years ago they knew less than i do for  real bro  um so it's not great it's not great  having nobody to look up to and have  being the most brilliant person it's not  so like in my case is a very particular  example like did i get into  this the study of this language this  kind of research  did i get into this to be alone and if  the answer is no  i got to change my whole life i got to  find a new field of studies i got to  find a new career which i did but like  no i'm not cool i'm not cool with with  with being alone in this line of work  you know but my point here is  a lot of people are studying something  or have a line of work which is way less  rewarding than  buddhist philosophy or buddhist history  but it's politics right  a lot of people are looking at the job  they got a degree in chemistry they  became a dentist you know whatever it is  they got some job that earned some money  and they're looking at their life and  going whoa when i signed up for this i  didn't think i would be alone they had  some assumption they they would have  colleagues they would have friends  they'd be part of a larger unit they'd  be leading a meaningful life  together with other people with some  sense of esprit de corps and some sense  of purpose and they've got to sit here  and look at the reality fact that  they're not and again it doesn't matter  if it's your own fault it doesn't matter  like you know sure it's other people's  fault to some extent if it's your fault  whether it's 50 50 or 80 20 or 20  doesn't matter because you are dealing  with that reality of being hashtag  forever alone no matter whose fault it  is no matter where you cast blame or  cast aspersions in your analysis  earlier you asked me when you started  feeling alienation from people in this  way um so i could ask you the same thing  um  however i feel like you know you've  given a pretty good outline of  like  at what's that okay  what i'm trying to say is i can see how  this uh has influenced  how you've lived your life because  you weren't living for your friendships  in toronto right because right you  decided  i'm willing to  to you know move across the world and  never come back you know never come back  to canada  willing is an understatement  i was willing to never come back to  toronto  yeah yeah you were eager but a lot of  people they do feel this sense of  loyalty to stay in a place because of  the friends that they have so in some  ways i'm not saying it's you know and  they keep they keep being judged and  keep judging within the same little  cultural context again and again and  again they keep getting rejected and  they won't move or won't change going  yeah  yeah but it shows to me um a real  strength of character that you had that  you were not going places for the people  yeah you were not going to i used to  laugh about that go on yeah yeah yeah  yeah i'm not i'm not moving to  thailand to  meet people and i think that really did  kind of um  you can you can disagree with me but my  sense is that that influence like the  relationships that you did have with  people right that you weren't um  you know heartbroken if you're  you might you might have at various  times been been upset by friendships  ending but i think like um  how you you've just met a lot of  different people you have a lot of  different stories that you can draw upon  you know from from having met a lot of  different people  um  that you know you saw them as  individuals as who they were not as  people who were um trying you know not  that you were trying to be their friend  or you weren't caught up in this i hope  i hope this is making sense like the the  um  being caught up in this idea of trying  to make friends it might distract you  from actually like  getting to know people who they are in  the same way that like trying to have  this relationship with your parents  distracts you from like who they  actually are and um you know really  getting to know people um  as as yeah as they are as individuals  versus like  you know the kind of relationship that  you're building so i don't know  hopefully but you you were asking a  question your question was at what point  do you yes yes you wanted to restate the  question sure yeah um so  at one point did you feel that you would  be forever alone in these  um  uh i can say very precisely so it was  the second last year of high school and  that's kind of the end of my period of  being involved in the theater uh well  not quite sorry so after that while i  was in university for no sorry actually  my involvement theater continues to  university in some ways so i had maybe  two years in high school where i was  really involved in the theater and think  of myself long-term  as being involved in and it's  interesting i didn't think about  filmmaking much but i realized if you if  you're successful  in on the stage you can  you know  branch out and do film but live theater  was really what i was thinking about  uh being a playwright  etc but then to some extent also being  an actor and stand-up comedy and that  stuff so maybe two years in high school  where that was more and more at the  front of my mind  i did when i was in  university little bit about i was a  theater critic to some extent it was  attending plays and seeing what was  going on and i went and i auditioned in  the theater department at the university  and had had contact with them and so on  uh  you know there were there are two parts  to it one is accepting the forever alone  thing  but you know  that was that so that happened then that  was during high school for me absolutely  absolutely was specifically second last  year of high school and the trend so  that whole year and then the transition  to last year of high school absolutely  that's when i had to recognize that and  philosophy didn't really deal with it so  it was during high school for me  what took longer  was accepting that other people were  actually stupider than me  i really wanted to believe for the  longest time  that like other people were just as  smart as i was they just weren't trying  hard they just weren't motivated you  know what i mean they were just and it's  you can talk yourself into that you know  like oh yeah all these people they're  all so kind of brilliant and  hard-working they're just you know  they're doing something else it's not  their interest which you know obviously  that's projecting because a lot of  things i can remember  whatever i can remember teachers  perceived some teachers thought i was a  genius and some thought i was an idiot  it's like look i'm you know i remember  getting an a plus and a test and like  the teacher coming over talking to me i  was like look i never read the book i  like i don't know what the [ __ ] wrong  with you like you think i worked hard to  get this a like i i literally did none  of the reading i did you know i've made  no effort at all you know i just have a  good memory whatever you know like you  know that's not even testing your  intellectual abilities in any real sense  uh you know but in my involvement in  theater also in university  what was harder to really accept and  deal with is like wow these people are  that stupid  these people like like look wow  sorry i could tell anecdotes like you  know all the time for me at least when i  was a young man you'd think this person  can't be that stupid it can't be that  bad it can't be it's like  it's that bad and that took a lot longer  um  and that's obviously you know i talk a  lot about generosity of spirit on this  channel i think i was kind of born with  too much  generosity of spirit where i really  wanted to think the best of people and  assign positive motives to them and yeah  positive intellectual traits of them and  then really accepting like oh wow no  like things that i can do that i totally  take for granted other people can't do  and are never going to be capable of and  you know some of them are jealous of me  some of them resent me and pay me for it  most don't most of them are just happy  getting drunk and watching sports going  to nightclubs and doing cocaine doing  the things they are doing with their  time and  you know i know this is a shallow  example but it is relevant to this it's  relevant to theater the way you and i  will watch a tv program well it's true  of documentaries we can watch an  historical documentary and i can be  pausing it and pointing out you all the  things that are wrong with it and the  things the narrator is lying about and  the ways in which the narrator is  intentionally misleading you and other  people watch that same documentary and  they don't catch any of that and they  they even can't you know that's the  really weird thing about living living  life the way i do and you know sorry so  that was the harder turning point that  came later because i still i still don't  want to believe it i want to believe  everyone's brilliant i want to believe  everyone's smarter than i am to give an  example i want to believe my parents are  smarter than i am they're not both of my  parents were much stupider than i was  their whole lives as old people and as  young people when i felt like i grew up  with stupid parents guys and that was  hard to accept like whoa like they're  not doing this on purpose they're really  that stupid like they're not pretending  to be stupid really dealing with that  with your own parents and uh you know i  wanted to believe my teachers and  university professors were smarter than  me and really  whoa no you're not pretending you're  really this stupid all the time you know  and it's not that your mind is  preoccupied with something else it's not  you know yeah that was the harder thing  to  to get and um  anyway yeah and also i mean the other  thing is i always scoffed at it but  there always were people whether it was  university professors or not the  earliest one i can remember  uh this kid wasn't my friend like for  any length of years i was a kid it was  my friend for a couple weeks or  something when i was when i was a child  i didn't know this kid for very well  maybe a couple months i don't know but i  remember i went uh with this kid and his  parents  to a museum  and this museum i'd never been to before  so my parents weren't there i didn't  have any parent so it was me with this  kid and his his parents going to this  museum and again i've  i don't think i ever did anything with  that kid after that but some kid i knew  at school for a short period of time and  i was really little this was i think  kindergarten year or could have been  grade one i was a really small kid i  remember how tall i was and as i was  walking around this museum like i was  okay  maybe could that have been grade two i'm  sorry i could i could be i could be  misremembering a little bit i remember  how small i was but you've even seen  this with my daughter my daughter in  kindergarten or her verbal ability was  really high in english  yeah i know i know but anyway i think it  was like it was like that it was like  with my daughter where you like can't  believe how well spoken this kid is when  you're like four years old i really  think it was at that stage i was really  like kindergarten so i was trying to put  it later because remember the other  person but no i think that was for me  that was like kindergarten year um  anyway and while i was walking around  the museum  i was able to point to and say  intellectually sophisticated things  about all this stuff in the museum and i  remember both the boy so the other  little boy who's the same age as me like  i knew him from school or whatever and  his mother  they were both saying in different ways  like whoa this is the most brilliant  child like i've never met anyone like  this before you know and i remember you  know when the mother said it i just  completely scoffed at this but the same  way adults will tell you you're very  handsome or very beautiful as a child  just you know you know what grown-ups  are they want to say something nice to  look at and you're aware they'll even  the ugliest kid they'll patent that say  oh you're beautiful you know like you  know i just kind of dismissed that uh  but i was much more confused by the boy  my own age because little kids insult  each other and fight and stuff and i  remember him really saying like whoa  you're some kind of extraordinary you  know person this way  and um and i found that harder to kind  of deal with and i was i was trying to  say what don't you know this stuff i was  like what's you know what's the matter  with you kind of thing i didn't i didn't  say that but that's that's what i was  thinking like what do you mean like you  know it doesn't doesn't everybody knows  and that came up with the times when i  was a little kid i remember a kid coming  over to dinner at my house i remember  who this kid was a kid i knew for  several years and he was just shocked to  see me  uh talking politics with my father that  would have been this would have been  great too so yeah now i'm comparing that  first memory that really was like  kindergarten and then this was great too  and  you know i really i didn't i disagreed  with my father like we'd  you know that i was i was self-confident  and true now obviously when i was a  child i didn't go wrong  but he um and we we didn't just talk  about politics i mean we talked about  science and history a little bit you  know my father and i were at the dinner  table and i think it's fair to say  nobody else talks like my mom and my  sister  it was me and my dad dominating  the dinner table and i remember this kid  saying to me like i think i walked him  home after dinner at my house he said  like oh look now i realize why you're so  brilliant like you know it's because  you've you've grown up in this household  we have these intellectual discussions  over the dinner  and i didn't think of myself that way at  all  and i looked at him like what do you  talk to your parents about  me like what like you know and like you  know this kid was was blown over that so  no it's no i'm just going back to the  earliest examples obviously i have  experience when i'm in university and  once i'm actually writing things but you  know um  [Music]  that was a second much more difficult  thing to accept  and  that here's why i'm talking about it the  result is  you are  alone  like that's  what comes out of that you live in a  fundamentally  anti-intellectual culture like toronto  canada and you're alone now if i had  been born and raised in berlin it'd be  different the germans are not hyper  pro-intellectual but they're somewhat  prominent they're somewhat supportive  and somewhat pretentious as a culture i  didn't grow up in berlin i grew up in  toronto you know what i mean and i feel  it you know i've known um  i had black friends growing up by the  way i did um i had black friends who  were intellectuals and they they grew up  walking distance from me like it's  you know i lived in downtown toronto but  they did they did in effect live in a  black neighborhood i'm very shortness of  where i am but anyway they lived closer  to other black people and i knew for  them they grew up in like an even more  ridiculously openly anti-intellectual  culture these are like jamaican  immigrants in toronto uh you know or  just you know uh the dominant culture  warships sports marijuana alcohol a  certain kind of machismo certain kinds  of gender roles for both men and women  you know in this very openly  anti-intellectual culture you know so i  knew i knew a couple of black  intellectuals when i was uh  in high school  i didn't know  my friend i wasn't close to anyone in  university uh was in that category and  again this  alienation and hostility and and what  have you and i can remember being in  that black neighborhood  and i've probably told this before and  people assuming people coming up to me  and assuming and talking they assumed  that i was a light-skinned black  preacher for one of the religions like  black guys coming up to me in the  neighborhood being like hey brother are  you with like they asked if i was with  the louis farrakhan group or if i was in  this group  like just because i'm like carrying a  book and i'm gonna it's like  no like like i'm not you know like for  one thing i'm not black it's like they  perceived me as a light-skinned black  guy i had a shaved head like they  thought i was someone who was like 1 8  or 1 16 black or something they perceive  me as being part of one of those  religious groups because in that  neighborhood the only people who kind of  carry a book and  i don't know look and act the way i do  are our people are part of those  religious groups so yeah look i'm i'm  just saying this to contextualize it if  you grew up as an intellectual in hong  kong china where you're supposed to just  care about earning money if you grew up  as an intellectual in south korea if you  grew up as an intellectual in thailand a  lot of these are profoundly  anti-intellectual cultures  so yeah  um  look so ron sims says i know i know  quite a bit about ron from over the  years uh  so you know wrong i'm sure ron can  relate to him talking about will be  different people in the audience  to what i'm talking about okay you know  what else sucks  being stupid you know like that's this  is not my struggle in life but i think  that and feel that about my fellow  youtubers all the time like how do you  look in the mirror and cope with  yourself it's one thing to look in the  mirror and feel that you're ugly to look  in the mirror and feel that you're  stupid and to be performing on youtube  and listen to your own youtube video  later and think whoa i'm stupid  so yeah that's my struggle that's my  situation and it absolutely is about  being hashtag for everyone it is  relevant to this i'm not just doing this  self-indulgent way  but sure for other people it's instead  the sense that they're disappointing to  others that they're too stupid others  you may have the feeling that you're too  stupid for your own parents that your  parents feel impatient and let down by  you when you talk to them that your  friends like oh god what is it now you  know like you may be the one who's who's  too stupid and you know yeah  sorry go on but you know i just say it's  not that's not everyone's struggle but  either way whether it's because you're  brilliant or stupid or whatever it is  you can be for whatever reason if you're  alone you're alone you know it's the  same real fundamental fact which is not  being lonely you can be lonely under any  any uh  conditions but this is about you know  the reality of being alone  good good good answer that was that was  my question when when did you first  start noticing you know that you're  hashtag forever alone  um  yeah yeah no i mean going in  do you wanna well i was gonna someone's  raising the issue of narcissism which i  know a lot about uh i used to have a  member of my family who was diagnosed  with narcissistic personalities  in case you don't know who i'm talking  about it's someone who was a member of  my family before and isn't a member of  my family now so i know quite a lot  about the diagnosis and the reality of  narcissism i just say you know  the reality of narcissists and the  reason why they cause so much friction  in society and i'll just say at this  time there's no medical evidence that  narcissism is a biologically real  condition it may be i mean it's possible  i remember um  i remember a particular study with mri  scans of brain abnormalities with people  diagnosed with with narcissistic  personalities with mpd it is possible  that uh the same way that autism is now  known to be a biological real condition  it's possible narcissism will will will  be diagnosed it's also possible that  narcissism and autism are the are two  different types of behavior  resulting from the same biological  problem it really is uh  anyway sorry but you know so i know i  know quite a lot of narcissism but the  reality is narcissists are not hermets  they're not people who want to be alone  they're exactly people who are always  reaching out for and seeking validation  now i just say this i've spent the last  hour talking about myself  um there were many many ways in which my  behavioral type or psychological life is  the opposite of a narcissist and i've  taken those tests i score almost zero  it's on twitter with my actual score i  got like two out of 200 or something on  the narcissist and like uh the average  for an american was 33 or something i  was like i'm way way below i'm basically  at zero on the narcissist scale but one  of the things you might not know about  me is that i don't  like telling my own story i don't one of  the things that test asks you a lot  about is being the center of attention i  don't try to be the center of attention  i'm quite delighted to not be the center  of attention now anyway you can get into  the background and who i am what i'm  like and talk about it but because of  the format of youtube you're used to  being the center of attention because  i'm the person giving the monologue it's  actually not the way i live my life  that's not the kind of guy i am i'm not  an attention grabbing uh type of person  but i mean i think what's interesting  about narcissists is that they are  constantly rebelling against their  isolation they actively crave and they  often do outrageous and daring things in  order to get validation from other  people now  is this to what extent is this the same  topic we're discussing this video video  the forever i don't think well  we framed this conversation by talking  about a very meaningful type of  aloneness a very meaningful type of  isolation  but  there's a much less meaningful type of  isolation which is just that you want  other people to validate your ego  which is a lot of what goes on with npd  with narcissism pardon me with  narcissism in its medically precise  definition um so  this is an anecdote which you'll hear  from many sources if you have a  therapist's office and it's some kind of  psychoanalyst psychotherapist or  psychiatrist who specializes in people  with mpd who has a lot of clients in mpd  the secretary will know  which of the clients are there for npd  because one of the most predictable  behaviors they have is  bullying the secretary to make  adjustments to the schedule so there  will be a special exception made in  their case they'll come up to the  secretary and say oh okay so you do all  the appointments uh on the hour or  thirty minutes after they're like all  the appointments are there for five  o'clock or 5 30 or 6 o'clock 6 30 in  this pattern okay well in my case it has  to start at 4 45. they well you're going  to make an exception my case because i'm  an important person  that is like that one example if you've  known people with mpd  that is the condition they they want it  and they will bully the secretary at the  doctor's office  so like  in this outrageous childish way just to  get the validation just to get the  recognition that they're special or  important you know that's what mpd is is  like that's their struggle so you know  early on in this video i talked about  the difference between being lonely and  being alone in that sense people with  mpd people who really have narcissism uh  as truly divine they're always going to  be lonely they're never going to be  gratified enough they're never going to  be satisfied with this kind of uh this  kind of validation i think it's fair to  say for you and me both we're worth the  opposite of the spec we we don't really  give a [ __ ] about above of anything i  mean we uh sorry but like we can go from  shelter to deep you don't need anyone to  tell you that you're pretty like you  don't need people to make you feel like  you're high on the status chart with  like competition with other women for  how attractive you are but also like  you would never record music and upload  music because you need people to tell  you you're talented music you know if  you do she has made a few songs we've  done a few mystical things on youtube  you know as a joke no but you know for  real but you don't when we did that  there's no sense of uh craving  validation and ego that kind of  narcissistic  no  you know it's very challenging wanting  to know that you're special  uh want to be able to do so yeah it  overlaps with friendship and with being  alone and loneliness and being for  there's an overlap there but it hasn't  been especially what we're talking about  in this video yeah no it hasn't been i  just wanted to say uh in response to  um something that you had mentioned  earlier um  about  there is also loneliness uh and feeling  alone in feeling  dumber than other people that you might  not have had  much experience with um given that  you're brilliant uh  yeah but i'm bad at some things  never learned to drive a car we're going  yeah there are things  is ignorant at some point you know you  learn yes and  you know i i still feel like there is a  lot of hope for people um like i still  feel  like there  is some value in my reaching out to  people who i don't think are  intellectuals or you know haven't really  considered it like i i still want to  believe that people can become more  intelligent and people can become uh  people can change their minds about  things so in that sense i still feel  like optimistic um that people can  change and that there's a point in mind  not just  embracing being forever alone in this  way and you know trying to make the  effort to  to reach out to other people like there  is  something that could come from it um  but  you've had a lot of experience with this  of being the more intellectual partner  in both friendships and relationships  and you've had the experience of  putting in a lot of effort yes and a lot  of time  to help someone else to help them raise  up their level yeah and  then finding that either for emotional  reasons or for  um i guess intellectual reasons that  it's just not going to work out like  that all the effort that you put into it  is for naught and that you regret that  too sure so um you know i respect that  at this time in your life you're you're  more comfortable with  your  you know uh not having  colleagues not having like a salon of  people to to discuss things with in this  way  um but you haven't always been that way  and you know i've seen you struggling  with it throughout the years that you  know you you want to have contemporaries  but look so great great just putting a  human face on  in case people can't visualize we're  talking about with having a salon having  colleagues  autobiography of benjamin franklin  his whole career was made by having a  salon by having yeah  and he describes for you how it was  organized a book reading club how a  salon was organized and then the book  reading club they donated their books  and created a library this is a very  19th century 18th century sense of what  a library is it was you know gentlemen  coming together and you know and again  sorry with gender roles at the time were  what they were most of these guys had  married women who had no education at  all so their their marriage was not in  any way an intellectual partnership many  of them had arranged marriages and  purchased marriages many of them owned  slaves so like their home was a place  where their wife was ordering the slaves  around it's totally intellectually  barren kind of place uh  you know and then these men made time to  go to the salon and be part of a society  of learned gentlemen and you know he his  whole political career his newspaper  publishing career and his own  development education he had no formal  education he really never went to school  came about through these salons to  participating in these book reading  clubs literary clubs gentlemen's  intellectual clubs but you're saying to  put a face on it you know that's you  know that really lets you visualize what  you mean by having colleagues having  contemporaries yeah absolutely yeah um  that is a great example and  but what if you're the dumbest guy at  the club yeah right  so  my blonde ex-girlfriend she raised that  with me all the time because she when  she was around me she struggled with her  own self-esteem she said that she just  felt so stupid being around me she's bad  everything and many times i gave her  examples there'd be examples i'd be  smiling like i was like oh but remember  like sometimes i'm the dumb one and i  was i'd give something but remember in  this situation like i didn't know  anything else because there are some  things that ignore enough there's some  things i'm incompetent and and she'd say  yes but you're smiling and laughing  about that now because the other 95 of  the time you're brilliant and you're  right you know what you're talking about  you're great at everything you know and  she would say that her situation was  that she was wrong and stupid  ninety-five percent of the time was only  good at something  she really struggled with that and she  told me about it that was you know it  wasn't implicit in the relationship it  was really articulate so how do you feel  if you have those contemporaries but  they're always helping you you're never  helping them well so the hypothetical  situation of not being alone not being  forever alone but where you are  the third wheel or you are the weakest  link in the chain you're the dumbest guy  at the book club uh you're the dumbest  you're the guy nobody remembers from  benjamin franklin's uh you know salon  you know yeah you're the guy who's  struggling to keep up and having other  people explain yeah and i remember from  a young age  i have two older brothers so my older  brothers are like seven and five years  older than me so being the younger  sister i had a lot of experience of them  bullying me for being stupider you know  so at a very young age i got used to  being put on this  put on game i was going to say but like  just  being made fun of for being stupider  yeah and um  you know i know that feeling of where  it's like well  how could i possibly know that you know  i'm younger and i don't have that  experience like how can you expect that  of me so yeah i do also sympathize with  the other situation and feel that there  is still like  as long as you can get over the like  kind of emotional  response to that and and learn like you  can you can still like improve and  um be comfortable with your own  ignorance your own stupidity but  learned learn to move past it you know  so i like you know i i just say uh in  our relationship as well obviously yeah  you are more intelligent you have been  through a lot more experiences than i  have so i've also dealt with that same  you know sense of inferiority uh  but  once i've gotten over that it's so much  better to just recognize that like  let me let me just point this out though  okay right  your situation is that  no matter how inferior you may feel you  are to me  at any given point in time you still  have the fundamental strength in your  ego the fundamental source of  self-confidence  of feeling and knowing that you are  better today than you were five years  ago  and you're better than you were two  years ago yeah you know i think are you  better today than you were one month ago  you know it gets it's hard to say maybe  you had a bad month but you know but no  the amount of intellectual progress  ethical part the amount of you know  growth as a human being what use  whatever heavy terms you want yeah you  know but the amount of intellectual  progress you've made is so great in the  progress of in the in the space of five  years that even if you feel your way  behind me or way below  me you're you're better than you were  well a lot of people don't have that  a lot of people they're dumb and they  stay dumb they're ignorant and they stay  ignorant and they've been treading water  for the last five years you know and you  know whatever james aspie all kinds of  people just because of the life they  live or for whatever combination of  reasons i don't i don't mean people who  are mentally disabled or something but  people who are just not making progress  who don't have that don't feel that way  or or they feel that the ways in which  they did try to make progress they  failed and let you down and they weren't  smart enough weren't good enough or  whatever yeah that's true yeah  but i i do think that  other people can harness that same  um  absolutely ambition to become  a more intelligent person  absolutely and that's more sympathetic  and look that's that's why i'm doing  this i mean you know i didn't have  anyone to look up to when i was i did  i only had negative examples looked up  to you i can only look at this guy and  think i don't want to end up like this  guy i want to do the opposite of what  this guy is doing you know i only had  negative examples whether you're  thinking about on television on the  internet people i knew face to face  authority figures professors i had  nobody nobody i could look to positively  and i mean this this youtube channel  began  so i could be that for my own daughter  so if you guys don't know i have a  daughter growing up in france i never  get to see her maybe in the next few  years i'll get to see her i do have  lawyers working on it but  um you know i've no i have no reason to  think the legal situation's gonna change  or improve any time fast i just had  email with her mom my ex-wife in the  last few days actually so  you know but there's there's no room for  optimism but sure when i started this  youtube channel i wanted to show what  kind of man i was  and how i lived and to really  demonstrate this is the life of the mind  this is having a meaningful life this is  what it's all about and then she can  take it and do with it whatever she  wants to my daughter may become a  professional wrestler like you know you  don't know she may become a i was going  to say fireman firewoman fire person you  know she may work for the fire  department you don't know i don't decide  that and i'm not going to i'm not  imposing that on her but it's like look  kid  if you want to know and uh just to  mention briefly you know so we have  another mention here that i'm a former  uh  scholar of buddhism well if i'd never  created this youtube channel my daughter  could have grown up thinking about her  father primarily as a scholar of  buddhism she might have thought of me as  a stereotypical hippie she might have  thought of me as someone who smokes  marijuana and has dreadlocks and falls  into a certain cultural pattern i want  to say you know she might have thought  of me quite an effeminate figure also  it's like no guess what i was this  really boisterous dominant  self-confident masculine guy  very nihilistic very skeptical very  modern scientific attitudes who went  into buddhism and i wasn't a hippie and  i never got along with the hippies  that's why i had this big impact on  buddhism in the few years i was i was  doing it you know and then you know as  you know on my youtube channel you can  see in the years sense that i that i  took another direction but sure you know  um the book i'm writing right now  there are two  uh sources of inspiration for it and  they know it you know one is voltaire  i've talked about that in the channel  before i read voltaire and thought well  i can do better than this  that's a negative inspiration but the  other is there's this younger youtuber  oliver shields and i've said this to  them before i said look you know i'm  writing this book for you i'm writing it  for any young men like you  and you know the style and substance of  the book it's really aware there are  these younger intellectuals who are  going to learn something about the  meaning of life for me i'm not going to  learn everything you know i don't i  don't ask all the right questions and i  don't give you all the right answers i'm  not claiming this has a kind of biblical  [Laughter]  quality it's not supposed to be a  totally exhaustive  examination of these things but you know  i know i can set this down in a way  that's going to that's going to benefit  other people and people will react to it  and some people react to it negatively  and some people take inspiration from it  take it another direction but you know  for me now i'm doing the final rereading  revisions and editing uh for me the  least interesting parts of the book  are exactly the part where i'm i'm  really speaking to a younger reader  for me it'd be a more interesting book  if it was one cynical middle-aged man  just writing about politics and  philosophy and history  for other cynical middle-aged men but  it's not you know some pastors of it are  at that level but some of them are  really breaking it down and and teaching  to someone and by the way guys obviously  you could be 45 and you're new to this  game you know uh so no you know look i'm  i'm really aware of that i'm really  aware that that's the big positive  impact this youtube channel has on  people's lives and them that have ears  to hear you know let it hear but here's  one thing is significant it comes back  to the top of this video okay  this is exactly the same discourse that  you see people stumbling through on  reddit slash r slash forever alone you  have all these people who say they can't  fit into the expectations their  society put down for them they can't fit  into the expectations their parents sat  down for them they maybe can't fit into  the expectations that uh  tumblr or tinder so their dating apps  like this have sit down for them they're  like okay they can't live up to this  this and this so what are they gonna do  for the rest of their lives what is the  meaning of life and you know the  conclusion they all come to it's a  generalization but still i think it's  about the conclusion they'll come to you  again and again is that they have to  figure out how to live a meaningful life  on their own terms for their own reasons  they have to start living a life that  they will be happy with with no  validation from anyone else no  friendship from mimosa no encouragement  from anyone else maybe only negative  feedback from what else they have to  live the way an atheist lives in a 99  muslim society they have to live with  some sense of real commitment to a sense  of reward coming from what it is they're  devoting their time to and for some  people yes that's going to be research  into the cure for cancer it's going to  be something that's obviously rewarding  in some way for most people it's not  going to be the cure for cancer and i'm  interested many of them i mean this is  kind of pathetic but many of them they  talk about using steroids that they've  decided to become really muscular you  know and they they feel and again you  know you don't know what they look like  but they're people they're people who  say things like they're forever alone  they've never been hugged or kissed  they've never even had a like even a you  know simple relationship on that level  that wasn't consummated and you know now  their decision is to devote their time  to lifting weights and using steroids  other people it becomes the stock market  or something but you know they start to  they're groping around in the darkness  for a more meaningful life and for a  life that's so meaningful that this  crippling awareness that they're forever  alone is relativized by it is is it  becomes a relatively uh unimportant  problem yeah yeah  i i think i know this is maybe not that  deep or meaningful of an example but we  do see plenty of youtube channels just a  variety of topics you'll find on youtube  people who are really  people who are really interested in a  subject and they make an entire youtube  channel just devoted to  what pens they use or what what pencils  they use uh people who  we we've been looking into uh  joystick like people making yeah  joystick modifications  custom groups yeah but even the study  the study with me channels i think too  and stuff we're going out yeah so you  find people that obsessively studying on  camera yeah they're they're interested  in these in these subjects and they even  you know  are so  um passionate about them that they  share it on youtube and they don't care  if they only get 10 views or whatever  you know you can stumble upon these  these channels  you know not in it for fame or  the fortune glory um so yeah i know it's  a kind of small example it's not the  cure it's not finding the cure for  cancer it's not even something like  working as a dentist like you said you  know um  it's  just you know eventually you do have to  get comfortable with um  finding what it is that you're okay with  doing even if you are doing it alone  well and let's make this explicit in our  century  you're never going to be handed that  meaningful life by an institution right  like  if you think the solution to your  problems is studying philosophy at a  universal at a university [ __ ] shoot  yourself like are you [ __ ] kidding me  you might as well commit suicide now  if you think you're gonna find the  meaning of life in the academic study of  philosophy at a university homie it's  over for you you've got to do it  yourself but like more broadly a lot of  people in some other century  people used to go to a buddhist  monastery to try to have the meaning of  life people used to go to a university  you know the ancient university of  toledo you know people used to get  higher levels of formal education uh the  classic you know gentlemen's university  and liberal arts and  you know to provide the study of  classics for many centuries you know  you've now read some of those books you  know how meaningful they are you know  appian and thucydides and everything  else there were gentlemen of all ages  who decided to take the time and take  their money and go and learn the  classics and go get an introduction to  the thought of ancient greece and rome  there was a time when there was some  kind of institution people believed in  as helping you graduate to a more  meaningful life and i don't just mean  graduation like getting a certificate or  a credential there was a time when  people believed in institutions and  maybe some of them real today today do  you want to be an actor nobody in the  right [ __ ] mind will tell you to go  to university and study acting are you  kidding me in the year 2022  you might as well kill yourself if you  think you're gonna [ __ ] learn to act  going to university and enrolling in an  acting major you are [ __ ] living in  the wrong century you're not gonna learn  jack [ __ ] you're gonna learn how to be  fifty thousand dollars in debt you're  going to learn nothing you'd be better  off learning an act by joining the army  you know be in the marine corps for a  couple of years practice acting in the  shower you know what i mean like it's  like you know i'm saying this like it's  a [ __ ] joke it's no joke like the  extent to which people are groping  around in the darkness for a meaningful  life the extent to which uh people are  seeking out uh friendships trying not to  be alone  and that they have to go through that  process alone it's them sitting there  with google i mean these are all totally  different examples but oh do you want to  be an actor  you know do you want to be a stand-up  comedian  what percentage of stand-up comedians  studied comedy in university do you want  to do a news and politics show on  youtube what's the preparation for that  is that a universe  sorry i know these are kind of funny  random examples we wanted to go into  baking we were so [ __ ] stupid we  thought the way to do that was to enroll  in a university where you study  and like you know the the the low tide  of formal education the disillusionment  with and the discrediting of educational  institutions and formal ways of  progressing towards a meaningful life  whether that be uh secular education or  religious because again also going to a  buddhist monastery is discredited yeah  go to the shaolin temple knock yourself  the [ __ ] out you might as well go to  disneyland all that [ __ ] is like going  to disneyland it really is university is  disneyland year 2022 university is  [ __ ] disneyland you know yeah man  it's so true at least in the united  states  it's on you  i'm sorry that really funny i know  it's tragic but yeah yeah yeah it's uh  delivering you you know i've got  experience i've got a friend who teaches  german at a university and every so  often she jokes with me about what's  going on with their students in these  classes this is in the united states of  america people are paying a hundred  thousand dollars to spend three hours a  week in a classroom studying german  they're learning like i'm sorry but if  you want to learn german you would save  money you could go to germany and live  in a whorehouse you could live in a  brothel in germany and it would cost you  less money than going to university  united states america and you would come  out completely [ __ ] fluent in german  like like the the the the in effect like  to say the the education united states  america is inefficient is an insult to  efficiency right it's so totally  counterproductive if you want to if you  want to learn to speak german you can go  to germany and join the army or  something you go to germany and get a  job digging ditches but yeah you can  live in a [ __ ] brothel you'll come  back fluent in german you know like  there's so much there's so many ways you  can learn german and like this is not  one of them so no like but those are  skills that are tangible and testable  like how well you speak german you know  what i mean like when we're getting into  the intangibles we're getting into  having a meaningful life and that's why  i'm using things like acting or the  creative arts but we can talk about  anything else you know the extent to  which it's on you if you go to  university you got to bring the  meaningful life with you you can't find  it there that is a new challenge in our  era of course you know we didn't invent  it but yeah you know in prior centuries  and many of us our parents and  grandparents will have that attitude  that there's some institution you can  sign up for there's some credential  there's some form of matriculation or  graduation you go through that's going  to help you out that way and today there  is nothing  i mean what the [ __ ] is the point of  going to university your professors are  all middle age alcoholics who are taking  prozac like all you're seeing is like  the process of [ __ ] degeneration for  these nevishes with phds who are in  positions of authority you know and half  of them are communists and like 25 of  them are insane christian  fundamentalists like oh if you don't  want to go to the communist university  oh have a great time at the [ __ ]  mormon university have a great time at  sister mary's catholic [ __ ]  university like you know  it gets worse the left-wing universities  are bad the right-wing universities  everywhere so you know the  but you know perspective is really cheap  video used to say don't drop out of  college to go right right right right  durianrider was not wrong about  everything  [Laughter]  well yeah it's way harder the challenge  is way worse in accepting that it's all  on you and i think the good news is  there's a positive liberating aspect to  it like right now so we're moving to los  angeles does anyone here want to be an  actor does anyone here want to be a  comedian hit me up we can work like  really you and me we can do it like  there's something liberating to saying  hey look oh do you want to get involved  in news and politics well i can do a  news and politics show we can work  together like any of you in the audience  you know hit me up let's try to make it  out maybe it won't work out maybe we'll  hate each other you know whatever you  know no false promises here but there's  something liberating about taking  responsibility for that stuff if you're  like hey it's on me you know what i mean  now if you want to be a dentist  you got to go to dentist not everything  is like that you know but that's so many  of these horizons in life you want to be  a sculptor you want to be a painter you  want to be a stand-up comedian you want  to be an actor you want to be a writer  whether that's a screenwriter or write a  book or something that we're oh wow okay  it's all on you and there's something  terrifying in the fact that getting a  degree in english literature will not  prepare you to be a successful author in  any way whatsoever i mean you learned  more about how to write an essay with me  you learned how to really did it thank  you that take that degree so yeah you  know there's something liberating about  it there's also something horrifying  about it and and it relates to this big  issue of forever we looked at the  possibility of melissa going to business  school right and getting an mba and like  it was there's most of the websites most  of the pamphlets for these business  school but like the main thing they're  selling you is that you won't be alone  you'll have friends you'll have  colleagues uh uh you know you'll have  connections yeah you'll make networking  network connections that'll change the  rest of your life that's right and like  do you want to put that in the contract  homie because i can go i can go to  university and i do you think i'll have  one friend do you have one call really  really like you know you aren't  promising me [ __ ] you know i can what  the [ __ ] i can study at the university  of toronto for five years and never make  a single friend or colleague i can study  at university of victoria for five years  are you are you kidding me and and i can  be the most charismatic most brilliant  person in every [ __ ] class i enroll  in these are small classes  you know it's sorry a couple of my  professors still talk to me to this day  uh i i when i okay when i was in that  class for creative writing i was the  most brilliant creative writer in that  class let me tell you i'm not alone i'm  not saying every year the guy could have  had other classes other brilliant people  but you know no the competition isn't  that great and i'm the mo i'm one of the  most memorable people for that professor  and he still remembers me and he still  talks to me you know what i mean i do so  that happens but no oh gee so do you  think so that creative writing class all  the time i was talking to the professor  we were doing q a but he really  appreciated me as a colleague you know  do you think one [ __ ] person in that  class wanted to be my friend do you  think i have one friend today other than  the professor who still talks to me do  you think one of them was interested in  reading my work or reading  do you think any of them want to be my  colleagues do you think any of them  thought this guy is talented and he's a  background in the publishing industry  which i do i should go into business  with this guy this guy we could go  together into the publishing whether as  a writer or an editor or the actual  publisher not one [ __ ] person all  right and i can see this about buddhist  studies yeah i have a lot of experience  being the most brilliant person in the  room in buddhist studies context  not [ __ ] one person so you know but  all these institutions want to sell you  that lie sign up now and you're going to  have friends for life and people are  willing to pay  people who want do you know how much  people pay for a [ __ ] mba ronald do  you know of any [ __ ] idea people will  spend more than a hundred thousand  dollars uh to get an mba and sure this  is a huge part of it it is partly about  being hashtag  forever alone  you gotta do that you gotta take away i  think that's a great place  that's a wrap